but, if not, there was a day when many of the israelites found themselves in bondage in babylon. there was a king of babylon by the name of nebuchadnezzar. you read about him a good deal in the book of daniel and it stands as an epic that will remain stencil on the mental sheets of unfolding generations. nebuchadnezzar was a mighty king and when he ruled he ruled and when he issued an order he meant business. nebuchadnezzar issued an order. he made a golden image and his order was that everybody under the reign of his kingship had to bow before that golden image and worship it. now those of you who read the bible remember that story. one day nebuchadnezzar called in the judges and the governors and the sheriffs and they had a dedicatory service for this golden image and then he said to them, i'm instructing you to see that everybody bows before this golden image, but i was three young men around there. one's name was shadrach. the other one's name was meshach and the other name was abednego and they answered and i read it from the scripture and said to the king, oh nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer the in this manner. if it be so, our god whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fire of funnest and he will deliver us out of thine hand, o king, but if not be it known unto the o king that we will not serve thy god. now what should the golden image which thou hast set up? now i want you to notice first here that these young men practiced civil disobedience. civil disobedience is the refusal to abide by an order of the government or of the state or even of the court, that your conscience tells you is unjust. civil disobedience is based on a commitment to conscience. in other words, one who practice civil disobedience is obedient to what he considers a higher law. and in that comes a time when a moral man can obey a law which his conscience tells him is unjust. and i tell you this morning my friends that history has moved on and great moments have often come forth because there were those individuals and every age and every generation who were willing to say i will be obedient to a higher law. these men were saying i must be disobedient to a king in order to be obedient to the king. and those people who so often criticize those of us who come to those moments when we must practice civil disobedience never remember that even right here in america in order to get free from the oppression and the colonialism of the british empire nation practice civil disobedience. for what represented civil disobedience more than the boston tea party? never forget that everything that hitler did in germany was legal. it was legal to do everything that hitler did to the jews. it was a law in germany that hitler issued himself that it was wrong and illegal to aid and comforted you in hitler's germany. but i tell you if i had lived in hitler's germany with my attitude i would have openly broken that law. i would have practiced civil disobedience. and so it is important to see that there are times when a man-made law is out of harmony with the moral law of the universe. there are times when human laws are of harmony with eternal and divine laws. and when that happens you have an obligation to break it. and i'm happy that in breaking it i have some good company. i have shedrach, meshach and abednego. i have jesus and socrates. and i have all of the early christians who refused to bow. now the second interesting point is that these men never doubted god and his power as they did what they did. they made it very clear that they knew that god had the power to spam them. they said that to the king. now we know that the god that we worship is able to deliver us and that grew out of their experience. they had known god, they had experienced god in nature. they knew god as the creator. then they had seen god in history. and then they had seen god i'm sure in their personal life. they never doubted god's power to deliver them. but let me move now to the basic point of the message. now this morning if we forget everything i said, i hope you won't forget this. they came to the point after saying, our god is able to deliver us from the burning fire, funnest. but if he doesn't deliver us we still are not going about. but if not do you get that? that these men were saying that our faith is so deep and that we found something so dear and so precious that nothing can turn us away from it. our god is able to deliver us but if not this simply means my friends that the ultimate test of one's faith is his ability to see but if not you see there is what you may call and if faith and there is a though faith and the permanent faith, the lasting, the powerful faith is the though faith. now the if faith says if all goes well, if life is hopeful, prosperous and happy, if i don't have to go to jail, if i don't have to face agonism burdens of life, if i'm not ever called bad names because of taking a stand that i feel that i must take, if none of these things happen then i'll have faith in god and i'll be alright, that's the if faith. you know a lot of people have the if faith. jacob found himself in that dilemma once and his faith was contingent on an if and he said now if god will be with me and if he will keep me in this way that i go and if god will give me bread to eat and ram it to come again to my father's house in peace then shall the lord be my god. that's the if faith. jacob hadn't quite gotten to the essence of religion. there is a though faith though and the though faith says those things go wrong, though evil is temporarily trying, those sickness comes and the cross looms. never the last. i'm going to believe anyway and i'm going to have faith in a way though the waters they off roar and be trouble, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof the lord opposes with us the god of jacob is our refuge and old joe got to that point and he had a though faith. he looked out and everything that he had had been taken away from him and even his wife said to her now what you ought to do brother joe is to curse god and god. god has been unkind to you and you should have let god know a long time ago that you will only follow him if he allowed you to stay rich. if he allowed your cattle to stay in place you are to press him and die joe because he hadn't treated you right but joe said honey i'm sorry but my faith is deeper than that. though he slain me yet will i trust him my faith is a though faith and this is the essence of life and religion. the question is whether you have an if faith or whether you have a though faith you know what this says in substance that that ultimately religion is not a bargaining matter a lot of people bargain with god if you just let me avoid paying god if you if you allow me to be happy in all of its dimensions if if if you don't allow any suffering to come if you don't allow frustrating moments to come then i'll i'll be all right i'll give you a tenth of my income and i'll go to church and i'll have faith in you religion is not a bargaining experience it's not a commercial relationship and you know no great experience exist in the bargaining atmosphere think of friendship think of love and think of marriage these things are not based on if they are based on though these great experiences are not based on a bargaining relationship not an if faith but a though faith and i'm coming to my conclusion now but i want to say to you this morning my friends that somewhere along the way you should discover something that's so dear so precious to you that is so eternally worthful that you will never give it up you're to discover some principle you're to have some great faith that grips you so much that you will never give it up somehow you go on and say i know that the god that i worship is able to deliver me but if not yes i'm going on anyhow i'm going to stand up for it anyway what does this mean it means in the final analysis you do right not to avoid hell if you're doing right nearly to keep from going to something that traditional theology has called hell then you are doing right if you do right nearly to go to a condition that theologians are called heaven you are doing right if you are doing right to avoid pain and to achieve happiness and pleasure then you are doing right ultimately you must do right because it's right to do right you've got to say but if not you must love ultimately because it's lovely to love you must be just because it's right to be just you must be honest because it's right to be honest this is what this text is saying more than anything else and finally you must do it because it has gripped you so much that you're willing to die for it necessary and i say to you this morning that if you have never found something so dear i'm so precious to you that you will die for it then you want fit to live you may be 38 years old as i happen to be and one day some great opportunity stands before you and calls upon you to stand up for some great principle some great isha some great calls you refuse to do it because you are afraid you refuse to do it because you want to live longer you are afraid that you will lose your job but you are afraid that you will be criticized that you will lose your popularity are you are afraid that somebody will stab you shoot at your bum your house and show you refuse to take the stand well you may go on and live until you are not it but you are just as dead at 38 as you would be at nine and the cessation of breathing in your life is but the belated announcement of an earlier death of the spirit you died when you refused to stand up for right you died when you refused to stand up for truth you died when you refused to stand up for justice these boys stand before us today and i thank god for them but they had found something a fiery furnace couldn't stop them from believing and they said throw us into the fiery furnace yes but you know the interesting thing is the bible talks about a miracle because they had faith enough to say but it not god was with him as an eternal companion and this is what i want to say finally that there is a reward if you do right for righteous mistake it says that somehow that burning fiery furnace was transformed into an air conditioned living room somebody looked in that and said we put three in here but now we see four don't ever think you're by yourself go on to jail if necessary but you never go alone take a stand for that which is right the world may misunderstand and criticize you but you never go alone far somewhere i read that one with god is the majority and god has a way of transforming a minority into a majority lock within this morning and believe in him and do what is right and he'll be with you even until the consummation of the ages yes i've seen the lightning flash i've heard the thunder roll i felt sin breakers dashing trying to cook on my soul but i heard the voice of jesus saying still to fight on he promised never to leave me never to leave me alone no never alone no never alone he promised never to leave me never to leave me alone while you're going this morning my friends tell the world that you're going with truth you're going with justice you're going with goodness and you will have any total companionship and the world will look at you and they will understand you for your service will be around you but you go on anyhow but if not i will not bow and god grant that we will never bow before the gods of evil