thank you very kindly, my friends, as i listen to ralph abernathy and his eloquent and generous introduction, and then thought about myself, i wondered who he was talking about. it's always good to have your closest friend and associate to say something good about you. and ralph abernathy is the best friend that i have in the world. i'm delighted to see each of you here tonight in spite of a storm warning. you reveal that you are determined to go on in a somehow. some is happening and meant for something is happening in our world. and you know if i was standing at the beginning of time with the possibility of taking a kind of general and panoramic view of the whole of human history up to now, and they all might have said to me, martin luther king, which age would you like to live in? i would take my mental flight by egypt. and i would watch god's children in their magnificent trek from the dark dungeons of egypt through a rather across the red sea through the wilderness on toward the promised land. and in spite of its magnificent, i wouldn't stop there. i would move on by greece and take my mind to mount olympus. and i would see plato, aristotle, socrates, euripides, and aristophanes assemble around the parthenon. and i would watch them around the parthenon as they discussed the great and eternal issues of reality, but i wouldn't stop there. i would go on even to the great heyday of the roman empire. and i would see developments around there through various emperors and leaders, but i wouldn't stop there. i would even come up to the day of the renaissance. and get a quick picture of all that the renaissance did for the cultural and aesthetic life of man, but i wouldn't stop there. i would even go by the way that the man for whom i'm named had his habitat. and i would watch martin luther as he tax his 95 theses on the door at the church of wittenberg, but i wouldn't stop there. i would come on up even to 1863. and what's a vacillating president by the name of abraham lincoln finally come to the conclusion that he had to sign the emancipation proclamation, but i wouldn't stop there. i would even come up to the early thirties and see a man grappling with the problems of the bankruptcy of his nation and come with an eloquent cry that we have nothing to fear but fear itself, but i wouldn't stop there. strangely enough, i would turn to the almighty and say if you allow me to live just a few years in the second half of the twentieth century, i will be happy. now that's a strange statement to make because the world is all messed up. the nation is sick, trouble is in the land, confusion all around. that's a strange statement. but i know somehow that only when it is dark enough can you see the star. and i see god working in this period of the twentieth century in a way that men in some strange way are responding, something is happening in our world. the masses of people are rising up. and wherever they are to symbol today, whether they are in johannesburg, south africa, nairobi, kenya, accra, ghana, new york city, atlanta, georgia, jackson, mississippi, or memphis, tennessee, the cry is always the same. we want to be free. and another reason that i'm happy to live in this period is that we have been forced to a point where we are going to have to grapple with the problems that men have been trying to grapple with through history. but the demands didn't force them to do it. survival demands that we grapple with them. men for years now have been talking about war and peace. but now no longer can they just talk about it. it is no longer a choice between violence and non-violence in this world. it's non-violence or non-existence. that is where we are today. also in the human rights revolution is something it done and done in a hurry to bring the colored peoples of the world out of their long years of poverty. the whole world is doomed. now i'm just happy that god has allowed me to live in this period to see what is unfolding. and i'm happy that he's allowed me to be in memphis. i can remember when negroes were just going around as ralph has said so often scratching where they didn't itch and laughing when they were not tickling. but that day is all over. we mean business now and we are determined to gain our rightful place in god's world. as all this whole thing is about, we are engaged in a negative protest and in a negative arguments within a body. we are saying that we are determined to be men. we are determined to be people. we are saying that we are god's children. and we are god's children. we don't have to live like we are forced to live. now what does all of this mean in this great period of history? it means that we've got to stay together. we've got to stay together and maintain unity. you know whenever pharaoh wanted to prolong the period of slavery in egypt, he had a favorite formula for doing it. what was that? he kept the slaves fighting among themselves. but whenever the slaves get together, something happens in pharaoh's court and he cannot hold the slaves in slavery when the slaves get together, that's the beginning of getting out of slavery. now let us maintain unity. secondly, let us keep the issues where they are. the issue is injustice. the issue is the refusal of memphis to be fair and honest in its dealings with its public servants who happen to be sanitation workers. now we've got to keep a tension on that. that's always the problem with a little violence. you know what happened the other day and the press dealt only with the winter breaking. our radicals, they bare seldom got around to mentioning the fact that 1, 300 sanitation workers on strike and that memphis is not being far to them and that male lobe is in dire need of a doctor. they didn't get around either. now we're going to march again and we've got to march again in order to put the issue where it is supposed to be. of course, everybody to see the day of 1, 300 of god's children here suffering. sometimes going hungry, going through dark and during nights, wondering how this thing is going to come out, that's the issue. and we've got to say to the nation, we know how it's coming out or when people get caught up with that which is right and they are willing to sacrifice for it, there is no stop in part, shout a victory. we are going to let in and may stop us. we are masters in our non-profit movement in disarming police forces. they don't know what to do. i've seen them so often i remember in birmingham, alabama and we were in that majestic struggle there. we would move out of the 16th street baptist church day after day. by the hundreds we would move out and bull connor would tell them to send the dogs for and they did come. but we just went before the dogs singing and going, let nobody turn me around. bull connor next would say time to fire holes is on. as i said to you the other night bull connor didn't know history. he knew a kind of physics that somehow didn't relate to the trans physics that we knew about. and that was the fact that there was a certain kind of fire that no water could put out. and we went before the fire hoses. we had known water. if we were baptist or some other denominations we had been immersed. if we were methodist and some others we had been sprinkled but we knew water. that couldn't stop us. and we just went on before the dogs and we would look at them and we'd go on before the water hoses and we would look at it and we just go on singing over my head i see freedom in there. and we would be thrown into paddy wagons and sometimes we were stacked in there like sardines in a can. they would throw us in an old bull would say take them off. and they did and we would just go on in the paddy wagons singing we shall overcome. and every now and then we get in jail and we see the jailers looking through the windows being moved by a prayer. and being moved by our words in our song. that was a power there which bull corner couldn't adjust adjust to. and so we ended up transforming bull into a steel and we won our struggle in birmingham. and we've got to go on in memphis just like that. i call upon you to be with us when we go out monday. now about injunctions we have an injunction and we're going into court tomorrow morning to fight this illegal unconstitutional injunction. all we say to america is be true to what you said on paper. if i lived in china or even russia or any totalitarian country, maybe i could understand some of these illegal injunctions. maybe i could understand the denial of certain basic first amendment privileges because they haven't committed themselves to that over that. but somewhere i read of the freedom of assembly, somewhere i read of the freedom of speech, somewhere i read of the freedom of press, somewhere i read. that the greatness of america is the right to protest far right. and so just as i say we aren't going to let any dogs or water hoses turn us around, we aren't going to let any injunction turn us around. we are going on. we need all of you. you know what's beautiful to me is to see all of these ministers of the gospel. it's a marvelous picture. who is it that is supposed to articulate the longings and aspirations of the people more than the preacher? somehow the preacher must have upon the fire set up in his bone. and whenever injustice is around, he must tell it. somehow the preacher must be an amos said when god speaks who can but prophesy. again the famous let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream. somehow the preacher must say with jesus the spirit of the lord is upon man because he has anointed me. and he's anointed me to deal with the problems of the poor. and i want to commend the preachers. under the leadership of these noble men james lawson, one who has been in this struggle for many years, he's been the jail for struggling. he's been kicked out of vanderbilt university for this struggling but he's still going on fighting for the rights of his people. and i want to thank all of them and i want you to thank them because so often preachers aren't concerned about anything but themselves. it's always happy to see a relevant minister. it's all right to talk about long white roles over yonder in all of its symbolism. but ultimately people want some suits and dresses and shoes to wear down here. it's all right to talk about streets flowing with milk and honey. but god has commanded us to be concerned about the slums down here and his children who can't eat three square meals a day. it's all right to talk about the new jerusalem but one day god's preacher must talk about the new new york, the new atlanta, the new philadelphia, the new los angeles, the new memphis tennessee. this is what we have to do. not other thing we'll have to do is this. always anchor our external direct action with the power of economic withdrawal. and we are poor people individually. we are poor when you can pass with white society in america. we are poor. never stop to get that collectively. that means all of us together. collectively we are richer than all the nations in the world with the exception of nine. did you ever think about that? after you leave the united states, so that russia, great britain, west germany, france, and i can name others, american negro collectively is richer. and most nation in the world, we have an annual income of more than thirty billion dollars a year which is more than all of the exports of the united states and more than the national budget of canada. did you know that? that's power right there if we know how to coup. we don't have to argue with anybody. we don't have to curse and go around acting bad with our words. we don't need any bricks and bottles. we don't need any molotov cocktails. we just need to go around to these stores and to these massive industries in our country and say, god send us by here to say to you that you're not treating this children right. and we come by here to ask you to make the first item on your agenda, bad treatment, where god's children are concerned. now, if you are not prepared to do that, we do have an agenda that we must follow. and our agenda calls for withdrawing economic support from you. as a result of this, we are asking you tonight to go out and tell your neighbors not to buy coca-cola in memphis. go by and tell them not to buy seal test milk. tell them not to buy. what is all the bread, one to bread? and what is all the bread come to jesse? tell them not to buy hearts bread. jesse jackson has set up to now, only the garbage men have been feeling pain. now we must kind of redistribute the pain. we are choosing these companies because they haven't been found out how our policies and we are choosing them because they can begin the process of saying they are going to support the needs and the rights of these men who are on track. and then they can move on town, downtown and tell me a load to do what is right. now, not only that, we've got a strength and black institution. i call upon you to take your money out of the bank's town town and deposit your money in cross state bank. we want a bank in movement in memphis. go by the savings and loan association. i'm not asking you something that we don't do ourselves in sclc. we have an account here in the savings and loan association from the southern christian leadership company. we are telling you to follow what we are doing. put your money there. we have six or seven black insurance companies here in the city of memphis. take out your insurance now. we want to have an insurance in. now, these are some practical things that we can do. we begin the process of building a great economic base and at the same time we are putting pressure where it really hurts. i ask you to follow through here. now, let me say as i move to my conclusion that we've got to give ourselves to this struggle until the end. nothing would be more tragic than to stop at this point in memphis. we've got to see it through. when we have our march, you need to be there. it means leaving work. if it means leaving school, be there. be concerned about your brother. you may not be on strike. but either we go up together or we go down together. now, let us develop a kind of dangerous unselfishness. one day a man came to jesus and he wanted to raise some questions about some vital matters of life. he wanted to trick jesus and show him that he knew a little more than jesus knew and threw him off base. now, that question could have easily ended up in a philosophical and theological debate. when jesus immediately pulled that question from mid-air and placed it on a dangerous curve between jerusalem and jericho, he talked about a certain man who fell among thieves. you remember that i leave right? the priests passed bound on the side. they didn't stop to help him. finally, a man of another race came by. he got down from his beast. decided not to be compassionate by proxy. but he got down with him at menace at first aid and helped the man in need. jesus ended up saying this was a good man. this was a great man because he had the capacity to project the eye into the bow and to be concerned about his brother. now, you know, we use our imagination a great deal to try to determine why the priest and the levite didn't stop. the times we say they were busy going to a church meeting and ecclesiastical gathering and they had to get on down to jerusalem so they wouldn't be late for their meeting. at other times, we would speculate that there was a religious law that one who was engaged in religious ceremonial was not to touch a human body 24 hours before the ceremony. and every now and then, we began to wonder whether maybe they were not going down to jerusalem, down to jericho rather to organize a jericho root road improvement association. that's the possibility. maybe they felt that it was better to deal with the problem from the causal root rather than to get bogged down with an individual effect. but i'm going to tell you what my imagination tells me. it's possible that those men were afraid. you see the jericho road is a dangerous road. i remember when mrs. king and i were first in jerusalem. we rented a card and drove from jerusalem down to jericho. and as soon as we got on that road, i said to my wife, i can see why jesus used this as the setting for his parable. it's a winding, meandering road. it's really conducive ambition. you start out in jerusalem, which is about 1200 miles or rather 1200 feet above sea level. and by the time you get down to jericho, 15 or 20 minutes later, you are about 22 hundred feet below sea level. that's a dangerous road. in the days of jesus, it came to be known as the blood of pass. you know it's possible that the priest and the levite looked over that man on the ground and wondered if the robbers were still around. it's possible that they felt that the man on the ground was merely faking. and he was acting like he had been robbed and hurt in order to seize them over there, love them there for quick and easy seizure. and so the first question that the priest asked, the first question that the levite asked was, if i stop to help this man, what will happen to me? but then the good samaritan came by and he reversed the question. if i do not stop to help this man, what will happen to him? that's the question before you tonight. now, if i stop to help the sanitation workers, what will happen to my job? now, if i stop to help the sanitation workers, what will happen to all of our hours that i usually spend in my office every day and every week as a pastor? the question is not, if i stop to help this man in need, what will happen to me? the question is, if i do not stop to help the sanitation workers, what will happen to them? that's the question. let us rise up tonight with a greater readiness. let us stand with a greater determination and let us move on in these powerful days, these days of challenge to make america what it ought to be. we have an opportunity to make america a better nation. and i want to thank god once more for allowing me to be here with you. you know, several years ago i was in new york city, autographing the first book that i had written. and while sitting down autographing books, a diminute black woman came up, the only question i heard from her was, you, martin luther king, and i was looking down writing, and i said yes. in the next minute i felt something beating on my chest. before i knew it, i had been stabbed by this diminute woman. i was rushed to harlem hospital. it was a dark saturday afternoon. and that blade had gone through and the x-rays revealed that the tip of the blade was on the edge of my order, the main order. and once that's punctured, you're drowned in your own blood, that's the end of you. it came out in the new york times the next morning that if i had merely sneezed, i would have died. well about four days later they allowed me after the operation, after my chest had been open and the blade had been taken out to move around in the wheelchair in the hospital. they allowed me to read some of the mail that came in and from all over the states and the world, kind letters came in. i read a few, but one of them i will never forget. i had received one from the president and the vice president. i've forgotten what those telegrams said. i'd received a visit and a letter from the governor of new york, but i've forgotten what that letter said. but that was another letter. it came from a little girl, a young girl, who was a student at the white plains high school. and i looked at that letter and i'll never forget it. it said, simply dear dr. king, i am a ninth grade student at the white plains high school. she said, while it should not matter, i would like to mention that i'm a white girl. i read in the paper of your misfortune and of your suffering. and i read that if you had sneezed, you would have died. i'm simply writing you to say that i'm so happy that you didn't sneeze. and i want to say tonight. i want to say tonight that i too am happy that i didn't sneeze because of i had sneezed. i wouldn't have been around here in 1960. when students all over the south started sitting in at lunch hours. and i knew that as they were sitting in, they were really standing up for the best in the american dream and taking the whole nation back to those great welds of democracy, which were dug deep by the founding fathers in the declaration of independence and the constitution, if i had sneezed. i wouldn't have been around here in 1961 when we decided to take a ride for freedom and end its segregation in interstate travel. if i had sneezed, i wouldn't have been around here in 1962 when nick rose and all bennett georgia decided to straighten that box up. and when ever men and women straighten that box up, they're going somewhere because a man can't ride your back unless it is bent. if i had sneezed, i wouldn't have been here in 1963. the black people of birmingham, alabama, aroused the conscience of this nation and brought into being the civil rights bill. if i had sneezed, i wouldn't have had a chance later that year in august to try to tell america about a dream that i had had. if i had sneezed, i wouldn't have been down in selma, alabama to see the bread movement there. if i had sneezed, i wouldn't have been in memphis to see a community right there around those brothers and sisters who were suffering. i'm so happy that it didn't sneeze and they were telling me. now it doesn't matter now. it really doesn't matter what happens now. i left atlanta this morning and as we got started on the plane, that was six of us. the pilot said over the public address system, we are sorry for the delay. but we have dr. martin luther king on the plane and to be sure that all of the bags were checked. and to be sure that nothing would be wrong on the plane, we had to check out everything carefully and we've had the plane protected in god at all night. and then i got into memphis and some began to say the threats, to talk about the threats that were out. what would happen to me from some of our sick white brothers? well, i don't know what will happen now. we've got some difficult days ahead. but it really doesn't matter with me now because i've been to the mountain top. i don't know. like anybody i would like to live a long life. but i'm not concerned about that now. i just want to do god's will. and he's allowed me to go up to the mountain. and i've looked over and i've seen the promised land. i may not get there with you. but i want you to know the night that we as a people will get to the promised land. so i'm happy tonight. i'm not worried about anything. i'm not feeling in a man. my eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the lord.