I want you to think with me this morning from the subject, rediscovering lost value, rediscovering lost value. That is something wrong with our world, something fundamentally and basically wrong. I don't think we have to look too far to see that. I'm sure that most of you would agree with me in making that assertion. And when we stop to analyze the cause of our world's yields, many things come to mind. We begin to wonder if it is due to the fact that we don't know enough. But it can't be that because in terms of accumulated knowledge, we know more today than men have known in any period of human history. We have the facts that I will dispose of. We know more about mathematics, about science, about social science and philosophy. And we've ever known in any period of the world's history. So it can't be because we don't know enough. Then we wonder if it is due to the fact that I was scientific genius lies behind that is if we have not made enough progress scientifically. But then it can't be that. For all the scientific progress over the past few years has been amazing. Man through his scientific genius has been able to draw distance and place time and change. But at today's possibility, breakfast in New York City and supper and lunching. Back in about 1753, it took a little three days to go from New York City to Washington. And today you can go from here to China in less time than that. It can't be because man is stagnant in his scientific progress. Man through scientific genius has been amazing. I think we have to look much deeper than that if we are to find the real halls of man's problems in the real halls of the world is today. We are to really find that I think we will have to look in the hearts and souls of man. The trouble isn't so much we don't know enough but it is that we aren't good enough. The trouble isn't so much that our scientific genius lies behind but our moral genius lies behind. The great problem facing modern man is that that the means by which we live, have our distance the spiritual ends from which we live. So we find ourselves caught in a messed up world. The problem is with man himself and man's soul. We haven't learned how to be just and honest and kind and true and loving. That is the basis of our problem. The real problem is that through our scientific genius we made up the world of navelhood but through our moral and spiritual genius we fail to make up the problem. And the great danger facing us today is not so much the atomic bomb that was created by physical science. Not so much that atomic bomb that you can put in an hour train and drop on the heads of hundreds and thousands of people as dangerous as any of us. But the real danger confronting civilization today is that atomic bomb which lies in the hearts and souls of man. It's a great problem of exploding into the burn list of people and into the most damaging socialists. That's the atomic bomb that we've got to fear today. The problem is with man within the heart and the soul to man. That is the real basis of our problem. My friends all I'm trying to say is that if we were to go forward today we'd got to go back. And we'd discover some mighty precious values that we've left behind. And see the only way that we would be able to make about world a better world and to make of this world what God wants you to be and the real purpose and meaning of it. And the way we can do it is to go back and we'd discover some mighty precious values that we've left behind. Our situation in the world today reminds me of a very popular situation that took place in the life of Jesus who's read in the picture for the morning. Found over the second chapter of Luke's gospel. The story's very familiar, very popular. We all know it. You remember when Jesus was about 12 years old. As it was the custom of the feast, Jesus' parents took him up to Jerusalem. That was an annual occasion, the feast of the Passover. And they went up to Jerusalem and they took Jesus along with him. They were there a few days and then after being there they decided to go back home to Nashville. And they started out, I guess, as it was, to the tradition in those days of Passover probably chastled in front and then the mothers and the children behind just so they didn't have the modern convenience of that we have today. They didn't have all the more bills and subways and buses. They wrote and traveled on the donkeys and camels and what happened. So they traveled very slow but it was usually the tradition for the Father to lead the way. They left Jerusalem going on back to Nashville. I imagine they walked a little while and they didn't look back to see if everybody was there. But then the Scripture says, they went about a day's journey and they stopped. I imagine the check-up to see if everything was all right and they discovered that something much of pressure was missing. They discovered that Jesus wasn't with them. Jesus wasn't in the midst. So they pulled there and looked and they didn't see him around and they went on and started looking among the children's folk and they went on back to Jerusalem and turned in there in the temple with the doctors of the Lord. Now, the real thing that is to be seen is that the power of Jesus realized that they had left and that they had lost a minor pressure back. They had since enough to know that before they could go forward to measure if they had to go back to Jerusalem to read the snow of this track. They knew that. They knew that they couldn't go forward to measure until they went back to Jerusalem. Sometimes you know it's necessary to go back to an order to go forward. That's an analogy of life. I remember the day I was driving out of New York City in the Boston and I stopped off in Bridgeport, Connecticut to visit and friend. And I went out of New York on a highway that's known as the Merrick Parkway. It leaves in the Boston very fine parkway. And I stopped in Bridgeport, that's to being back for two or three hours. I started going to Boston and I wanted to get back on the Merrick Parkway. And I went out thinking that I was going through the Merrick Parkway. I started out and I rode and I kept riding. I looked up and I saw a sign saying two miles to a little town that I knew I was to bypass. I wasn't to pass through that particular town. So I thought I was on the wrong road. I stopped and I asked the gentleman on the road, which way would I get through the Merrick Parkway? He said the Merrick Parkway is about 12 or 15 miles back that way. He's about to turn around and go back to the Merrick Parkway. You are out of the arena. In other words, before I could go forward to Boston, I had to go back about 12 or 15 miles to get to the Merrick Parkway. My little bee, that mother-man has gotten on the wrong parkway. The bee is to go forward through the city of South Asian. He's got to go back. Get on the Merrick Parkway. So that was the thing that Jesus' parents realized that they had to go back and find this many precious package that they went back behind in order to go forward. They realized that. They went back to Jerusalem and discovered Jesus. We discovered them, so to speak, in order to go forward to NASA. Now that's what we've got to do in our world today. We've left a lot of precious values behind. We've lost a lot of precious values. And the way that they go forward, we have to make this a better world in which to live, we've got to go back. We've got to rediscover these precious values that we've left behind. I want to deal with one or two of these mighty precious values that we've left behind, that if we had to go forward and to make this a better world, we must rediscover them. The first is this. The first principle of value that we need to rediscover is this. That all reality is hinges on moral foundations. In other words, that this is a moral universe and that there are moral morals of the universe, just as abiding as a physical law. I'm not so sure we all believe that. We never doubt that the physical laws of the universe that we must obey. We never doubt that. And so we just don't jump out of our planes, or jump off of high buildings, or the funerals. We don't do that. Because we unconsciously know that there is a funer-loved reputation. And if you disobey it, you will suffer consequence. We know that. Even if we don't know it in its Newtonian formulation, we know it intuitively. And so we just don't jump off the high buildings in the charts for the funerals. We don't do that. Because we know that that is a law of reputation, which is final in the universe. We disobey it. We suffer consequence. But I'm not so sure we know that that are moral law, just as abiding as a physical law. I'm not so sure about that. I'm not so sure we really believe that that is a law of love in this universe. And that if you just obey it, you will suffer consequence. I'm not so sure we really believe that. And at least two things convinced me that we don't believe that. That we have strayed away from the principles that this is a moral universe. The first thing is that we have adopted in the modern world a sort of relativistic ethic. Now I'm not trying to use a big word. I'm trying to say some very concrete. And that is that we have accepted the attitude that right and wrong are merely relative to all. This recording is briefly interrupted at this point. Most people can't stand up for that so they are conviction because the majority of good will not be doing. See everybody is not doing it, so it must be wrong. And since everybody is doing it, it must be right. So a law of numerical interpretation of what's right. I'm here to say to you this morning that some things are right and some things are wrong. Internally so absolutely so. It's wrong to hate. It always has been wrong and always will be wrong. It's wrong in America, it's wrong in Germany, it's wrong in Russia, it's wrong in China. It was wrong in 2000 BC and was wrong in 1964 anything. It always has been wrong and it always will be wrong. It's wrong to throw our lives away in line to sleep. No matter if everybody in the country is doing it, it's wrong. It always will be wrong and it always has been wrong. It's wrong in every age and it's wrong in every nation. Some things are right and some things are wrong. No matter if everybody is doing the country, some things in this universe have to do. God of the universe has made it so. There are long as we have got this relative attitude toward right and wrong. You're resulting against the very laws of God himself. Now that's the only thing that convinces me that we straight away from this attitude, this principle. The other thing is that we have adopted a sort of pragmatic test to right and wrong. Whatever works is right. If it works is all right. Nothing is wrong but that's what does not work. If you don't get caught is right. That's the attitude this way. It's all right to disobey the pure commandments. But just don't disobey your leaven. Now shall not get caught. That's the attitude. That's the preparing attitude in our culture. No matter what you do, just do it with the bitterness. You know a sort of attitude of the survival of the slaves. Not the Darwinian survival of the fittest, but the survival of the slaves. Whoever can be the slippiest is the one who ranks. It's all right to lie but to lie with dignity. It's all right to steal and to rob and export but do it with the bitterness in this. It's all right to hate that just just your hate up into so much of love and make it appear that you another when you actually hate it. Just get down. That's your saying that's right according to this. My friends that attitude is destroying the soul of our culture. It's the story of nation. The thing that we need in the world today is a good, good man and women who will stand up for rights. To be opposed to love, everybody. Who put people who will come to see. That some things are wrong whether they are not caught up with. Some things are right but the number of sins you throw in them are not. All I'm trying to say is how well Hint is a mother's foundation. God has made it so. God hasn't made the universe to be based on a dollar low. So man is man to serve things and he's revolting against God. That's what we need in the world today. Good for who will stand for right and goodness. Not enough to know the intricacies of zoology and biology. But we must know the intricacies of love. Not enough to know that two and two make food. But we've got to know somehow that it's right to be honest and just without words. It's not enough to know all the parts of philosophical and mathematical disciplines. And we've got to know the simple disciplines. A pureist and loving and just without humanity. If we don't learn it, we will destroy our sense by the misuse of our own powers. His universe, his is a moral foundation. There is something in this universe that justifies, call Ireland saying, no light can live forever. There is something in this universe that justifies, will you come up by it and say, whose question will rise again. There is something in this universe that justifies James Russell more than saying, whose father, the scuffle, will forever form. That that scuffle swings the future behind the devil more and stands gone within the shadow of keeping watch above his own. And there is something in this universe that justifies the biblical writer in saying, you shall look what to solve. This is a moral body in universe. This is a moral universe. His is a moral foundation. We have to make this a better world. We've got to go back and read the stuff at precious value that we've left behind. Then that is our second thing. A second principle that we've got to go back and read the stuff. And that is that all our reality has spiritual control. In other words, we've got to go back and read and scuffle the principle that that is a God behind the process. Well, those who say, why is it that you raise that as a form in your sermon and a church? The mere fact that we are a church we believe in God, we don't need to go back and rediscover that. And the mere fact that we are here and the mere fact that we sing and pray and come to church, we believe in God. Well, there's some truth in that. But we must remember that it's possible to affirm the existence of God with real lips and their minds with existence with their life. The most dangerous type of disease. And there's not theoretical atheism, the practical atheism. That's the most dangerous type. And the world even looks at the fear that with people who pay lip service to God and love life's service. Fear not look. And that world is a danger. That is the nature of fear and eternity that we believe in God for internally we know. We see with our mouths that we believe in that we live with our lives like we never existed. That is the purest of things, your confronted religion. That's a dangerous type of atheist. And that is not the point that that is the thing that has happened in America. That we are unconsciously left there behind. Now we haven't consciously done it. We have unconsciously done it. You see the text, you remember the text said that Jesus' parents went a whole day's journey. Not knowing that he wrote this. They didn't consciously leave him behind. It was unconscious. It was a whole day and they didn't even know it. It wasn't a conscious process. You see, we didn't go up and say, now, goodbye God, we are going to leave you now. The materials in America has been unconsciously left behind. Since the rise of the industrial revolution in England and then the invention of all of our gadgets and contravences and all of our things and modern conveniences, we unconsciously left God behind. We didn't mean to do it. We just became so involved in getting all big bank accounts that we unconsciously forgot about God. We didn't mean to do it. We became so involved in getting all of nice, luxurious calls. And they were very nice. But we became so involved in it that it became much more convenient to ride out to the beach on sunda afternoon and to come to church that morning. It was an unconscious thing. We didn't mean to do it. We could do so involved and dissonicate by the intricacies of television that we sounded a little more convenient to stay at home and to come to church. We just didn't mean to do it. We didn't mean to just grab and say, now, that we're gone. We had gone a whole day just when we came to see that we had unconsciously ushered gone out of the universe. A whole day just didn't mean to do it. We just became so involved in things that we forgot about God. And that was the danger confronting us, my friend. That in a nation as always, where we stress mass production and that's might important. Where we have so many conveniences and luxuries and all of that, that is the danger that we will unconsciously forget about God. I'm not saying to these things are important. We need to, we need cause. We need money. All of that's important to live. But whenever they become a substitute for God, they become injurious. May I say to you this morning, that many of these things can ever be real substitutes for God. All of the bills and subways, televisions and radios, thousands since, can never be substitutes for God. For new materialities came into existence, we needed God. Long after they will have passed away, we will still be brought back. And I say to you this morning in conclusion that I'm not going to put my ultimate face in things. I'm not going to put my ultimate face in gadgets and contritions. As a young man with most of my life ahead of me, I have to say it all. To bring my life to something eternal and absolutely. Not to these little gods that are here today and gone tomorrow. But the God who is in the same yesterday, today and now. Not to the little gods that can be with us in a few moments of prospect. In the God who loves women through the valley of the shadow of death, who called in us to fill in an obstacle. None in the God that can give us a few cutler claws and built convertibles. That's nice as a young man. That are in style today and out of style three years from now. But the God who threw up the star to protect the heavens, not swinging lanterns of eternal. Not in the God that can serve a few star-spiriting buildings. But the God who threw up the giant mountains, kitchen the sky. Is it the reason that fruits in the open woods? Not in the God that can give us a few televisions and radio. But the God who threw up that red cosmic light, that gets up early from the Lord and in the east of the world, who gives us just the color of the possible, for something that man can never make. I'm not going to put my own philosophy in the universe that can be destroyed in an atomity. But the God who has been our help, can be just bad. And I will hope for years to come, our chosen in the time of star. And all eternal, that's the God that I'm putting my own philosophy. That's the God that I call to you the rest of this world. But this truth that God is for the last one stands my coming star. I will make star-spiriting buildings, the coming star. I do not have a feeling worth coming there, but I will do it. That man will not, this man is making a move, that forever I will still stand for him. Nothing can ever stop him. All of the piece of the ancient world can never reach God. And all atomic bombs can never reach. The God that I'm talking about this Lord is the God of the universe, and the God that will last to the ages. We are to go far with this Lord. We've got to go back and find that God. That is the God that told me and commands our ultimate allegiance. If we are to go far, we must go back and rediscover these precious values. But all reality hinges on moral foundation. But all reality has spiritual control. God bless you. Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make this space to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. Lord, look at the light of His countenance unto thee and we will be in thy going out in thy coming end, in thy labor and in thy leisure, in thy moments of joy and in thy moments of sorrow, until the day when thy shall be no sunset and the. ..