this morning i would like to use as a subject from which to preach the drum major instinct. the drum major instinct. our text for the morning is taken from a very familiar passage in the 10th chapter as recorded by st. mark. beginning with the 35th verse of that chapter we read these words and james and john the sons of zebedee came unto him saying, master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire. and he said unto them, what would ye that i should do for you? they said unto him, grant him to us that we may sit one on thy right hand and the upper on thy left hand and thy glory. but jesus said unto them ye know not what ye ask. can ye drink of the cup that i drink of and be baptized with the baptism that i am baptized with? and they said unto him, we can. and jesus said unto them ye shall indeed drink of the cup that i drink of and with the baptism that i am baptized with all shall ye be baptized. but to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give. but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared. and then jesus goes on toward the end of that passage to say that so shall it not be among you, but whosoever will be great among you shall be your servant and who slavet of you will be the chiefest shall be servant of all. the setting is clear. james and john are making a specific request of the master. they had dreamed as most of the hebrews dreamed of a coming king of israel who set jerusalem free and established his kingdom on mount zion and in righteousness ruled the world. and they thought of jesus as this kind of king. and they were thinking of that day when jesus would reign supreme as this new king of israel. and they were saying now when you establish your kingdom let one of us sit on the right hand and the other on the left hand of your throne. now very quickly we would automatically condemn james and john and we would say they were selfish. why would they make such a selfish request. but before we condemn them too quickly let us look calmly and honestly at our selves and we will discover that we too have those same basic desires for recognition, for importance, that same desire for attention, that same desire to be first. of course the other disciples got mad with james and john and you can understand why but we must understand that we have some of the same james and john qualities. and that is deep down within all of us an instinct. it's a kind of drum major instinct, a desire to be out front, a desire to lead the parade, a desire to be first. and it is something that runs a whole gamut of life. and so before we condemn them let us see that we all have the drum major instinct. we all want to be important to surpass others to achieve distinction, to lead the parade. alfred adler, the great psychoanalyst, contends that this is the dominant impulse. sigmund freud used to contend that sex was the dominant impulse and adler came with a new argument saying that this quest for recognition, this desire for attention, this desire for distinction is the basic impulse, the basic drive of human life, this drum major instinct. and you know we began earlier to ask life to put us first. our first cry as a baby was a bid for attention. and all through childhood the drum major impulse or instinct is a major obsession. children ask life to grant them first place. they are a little bundle of ego. they have innately the drum major impulse or the drum major instinct. now in a adult life we still have it and we really never forget by it. we like to do something good and you know we like to be praised for it. now if you don't believe that you just go on living life and you will discover very soon that you like to be praised. everybody likes it as a matter of fact and somehow this warm glow we feel when we are praised or when our name is in print is something of the vitamin a to our ego. nobody is unhappy when they are praised even if they know they don't deserve it and even if they don't believe it. the only unhappy people about praise is when that praise is going too much towards somebody else. but everybody likes to be praised because of this real drum major instinct. now the presence of the drum major instinct is why so many people are genres. you know there are some people who just join everything and it's really a quest for attention and recognition and importance and they get names that give them that impression so you get your groups and that they become the grand patron and and the little fellow who is hymn-picked at home needs a chance to be the most worthy of the most worthy of something. it is the drum major impulse and longing that runs a gamut of human life and so we see it everywhere this quest for recognition and we join things over join really that we think that we will find that recognition in. now the presence of this instinct explains why we are so often taken by advertisers. you know those gentlemen of massive verbal persuasion and they have a way of saying things to you that kind of get you in the bind. in order to be a man of distinction you must drink this whisky. in order to make your neighbor's envious you must drive this type of car. in order to be lovely to love you must wear this kind of lipstick or this kind of perfume. and you know before you know it you just buy that stuff. that's the way to advertise it. i got a letter there the other day and it was a magazine coming out and opened up. they're dr. king as you know you are on many mailing lists and you are categorized as highly intelligent, progressive, a love of the arts and the sciences and i know you would want to read what i have to say. of course i did. after you said all of that and explained me so exactly of course i wanted to read. but very seriously it goes through life the drum major instinct is real. and you know what else it happened? it often causes us to live above our means. there's nothing but the drum major instinct. you ever see people buy cars that they can't even begin to buy in terms of their income. you see people riding around in cadillac and chrysler who are not enough to have a good tea model for. but it feeds a repressed ego. you know economists tell us that your automobile should not cost more than half of your annual income. so if you make an income of $5, 000 your car shouldn't cost more than $2, 500 that's just good economics. and if it's a family of two and both members of the family make $10, 000 they would have to make our one car that would be good economics although it's often inconvenient. but so often haven't you seen people making $5, 000 a year and driving a car that cost $6, 000 and they wonder why that ends never meet. that's the fact. now economists also say that your house shouldn't cost you buying a house. it shouldn't cost more than twice your income. that's based on the economy and how you would make ends meet. so if you have an income of $5, 000 it's kind of difficult in this society but say it's a family with an income of $10, 000 the house shouldn't cost much more than $20, 000. what i've seen for making $10, 000 are living in 40 and $50, 000 a house and you know they just barely make it. they get a check every month somewhere and they all all of that out before it comes in. never have anything to put away for rainy days. but not a problem is it is the drum major instinct and you know you see people hovering over again with the drum major instinct taking them over and they just live that life trying out due to june. they got to get this coat because this particular coat is a little better and a little better looking than than mary's coat. i got to try this car because it's something about this car that makes my car a little better than my neighbor's car. i know a man who used to live in a $35, 000 house and other people started building $35, 000 a house so he built a $7, 000, 000 house and then hope somebody else built a $7, 000, 000 house and he built a $100, 000 house and i don't know where he's going to end up if he's going to live his life trying to keep up with the joneses. that comes a time that the drum major instinct can become destructive and that's why i want to move now. i want to move to the point of saying that if this instinct is not honest, it becomes a very dangerous, delicious instinct. for instance, if it isn't honest, it causes one's personality to become distorted. i guess that's the most damaging aspect of it, what it does to the personality. if it isn't honest, you will end up day in and day out trying to deal with your ego problem by boasting. have you ever heard people that you know and i'm sure you've met them that really become sickening because they just sit up all the time talking about themself and they just boast and boast and boast and that's the person who has not honest the drum major instinct and then it does other things to the personality. it causes you to lie about who you know sometimes. there are some people who are influenced petalers and in that attempt to deal with the drum major instinct, they have to try to identify with the so-called big name people. if you're not careful, they will make you think they know somebody that they don't really know. they know them well, they sit t with them and they have this and that. that happens to people and the other thing is that it causes one to engage ultimately in activities that are merely used to get attention. criminologists tell us that some people are driven to crime because of this drum major instinct. they don't feel the day again enough attention through the normal channels of social behavior and so they turn to anti-social behavior in order to get attention in order to feel important. so they get that gun and before they know it, they rob the bank in a quest for recognition and a quest for importance and then the final great tragedy of the distorted personality is the fact that when one fails to harness this instinct, he ends up trying to push others down in order to push himself up. and whenever you do that, you engage in some of the most vicious activities, you will spread evil, vicious line gossip on people because you are trying to pull them down in order to push yourself up. the great issue of life is to harness the drum major instinct. now the other problem is when you don't harness the drum major instinct, this uncontrolled aspect of it is that it leads to snobbish exclusivism. it leads to snobbish exclusivism. now you know this is the danger of social clubs and alternative. i'm in a fraternity. i'm in two or three for sororities and all of these. i'm not talking against them. i'm saying it's the danger. the danger is that they can become forces of classism and exclusivism, where somehow you get a degree of satisfaction because you are in something exclusive and that's fulfilling some of them. i'm in this fraternity and it's the best fraternity in the world and everybody can't get in this fraternity. so it ends up you know a very exclusive kind of thing. and you know that i can have with the church. i know churches get in that bind sometimes. i've been to churches you know and they say you we have so many doctors and so many school teachers and so many lawyers and so many businessmen in our church and that's fine because doctors need to go to church and lawyers and businessmen, teachers, they ought to be in church. but they say that even the preacher sometimes will go all through that. they say that as if the other people don't count. the church is the one place where the doctor ought to forget that he's a doctor. the church is the one place where the phd ought to forget that he's a phd. the church is the one place that the school teacher ought to forget the degree she has behind her name. the church is the one place where the lawyer ought to forget that he's a lawyer. and in it church that violates the whosoever we'll let him condoctrin is a bad chore. and nothing but a little sort of with a thing of religiosity. the church is true to it so we'll let him not whosoever will let him come and it does not supposed to satisfy the perverted uses of the drum major instinct. the one place where everybody should be the same standing before a common master and savior. a recognition grows out of this at all men of brothers because their children are a common father. from the ending, lead to a crucifixion. lead one deal and can lead one to feel that because he has some training he's a little better than that person who doesn't have it or because he has some economic security that he's a little better than person who doesn't have it. that's the uncontrolled perverted use of the drum major instinct. now the other thing is that it leads to tragic and we've seen it happen so often tragic race prejudice. this recording is briefly interrupted at this point. you see with our own eyes in fact not too long ago a man down in mississippi said that god was a charter member of the white citizens council. and so god being the charter member means that everybody who's in that has us a kind of divinity, a kind of superiority and think of what has happened in historicism as a result of this perverted use of the drum major instinct is led to the most tragic prejudice, the most tragic expressions of man's inhumanity to man. the other day i was saying i always try to do a little converting when i'm in jail and when we were in jail in birmingham the other day the white wardens and all in joy coming around the sale to talk about the race problem and they were showing us where we were so wrong demonstrating and they were showing us where segregation was so right and they were showing us where infomerate was so wrong. so i would get to preaching and we would get to talk and calmly because they wanted to talk about it. then we got down one day to the point that was a second and a third day to talk about where they lived and how much they were earning and when those brothers told me what they were earning i said now you know what you ought to be marching with us. you didn't just pull at negro and i said you are putting the position of supporting your oppressor because through prejudice and blindness you fell to see that the same forces that oppress negroes and americans and society oppress poor white people. how are you living on is the satisfaction of your skin being white and the drum major instinct of thinking that you are somebody big because you're white and you so poor you can't send your children to school you ought to be out here marching with every one of us every time we have a march and that's the fact that the poor white has been put into this position where through blindness and prejudice he is forced to support his oppressors and all the thing he has gone for him is the false feeling that he's superior because his skin is white and can't hardly eat and make his ends meet weekend and week out and not only does it stop me not only does this thing go into the racial struggle it goes into the struggle between nations and i would submit to you this morning that what is wrong in the world today is the nations the world engaged in a bitter colossal contest for supremacy and the sun doesn't happen to stop this trend i'm sorely afraid that we won't be here to talk about jesus christ and about god and about brotherhood two minimal years if somebody doesn't bring it into this suicidal thrust that we see in the world today none of us are going to be around because somebody is going to make the mistake throughout senseless blunderings of dropping a nuclear bomb somewhere and then another one is going to drop and don't let anybody fool you this can happen within a matter of a second they have 20 megaton bombs in russia right now that can destroy a city as big as new york in three seconds with everybody wiped away and ever building and we can do the same thing to russian china but this is why we objected and we are just in there because nations are caught up with the drum mage instinct i must be first i must be supreme our nation must rule the world i am sad to say that the nation in which we live is the supreme culprit and i'm going to continue to say it to america because i love this country too much to see the drift that it has taken god didn't call america to do what she's doing in the world now god didn't call america to engage in a senseless unjust war as a war and vietnam and we are criminals in that war we've committed more war crimes almost in any nation in the world and i'm going to continue to say it and we won't stop it because of our pride and i have done several nations but god has a way of even putting nations in that place. the god that i worship has a way of saying don't play with me. he has a way of saying is the god of the old testament used to say the hebrews don't play with measure don't play with me battle me be still and know that i'm god and if you don't stop your reckless course i'll rise up and break the backbone of your power that can happen to america. every night then i go back and read gibbons the kind and fall of the roman empire and when i come and look at america i say to myself the parallels of frightening we have perverted the drummage instinct let me rush on to my conclusion because i want you to see what jesus was really saying what was the answer that jesus gave these men it's very interesting one would have thought that jesus would have condemned them one would have thought that jesus would have said you are out of your place you are selfish why would you raise such a question that isn't what jesus did he did something all together the difference he said in substance all i see you want to be first you want to be great you want to be in part of it you want to be significant well you want to be if you want to be my disciple you must be but he reordered priorities he said yes don't give up this instinct it's a good instinct if you use it right yes it's a good instinct if you don't distort it and perverted don't give it up keep feeling the need for being important keep feeling the need for being first but i want you to be first in love i want you to be first in moral excellence i want you to be first in generosity that is what i want you to do and he transformed the situation by giving a new definition of greatness and you know how he said it he said now brother and i can't give you greatness and really i can't make you first this is what jesus said to james and john you must earn it through greatness comes not by favoritism but by fitness and the right hand and the left are not mine to give they belong to those who are prepared and so jesus gave us a new norm of greatness if you want to be important wonderful if you want to be recognized wonderful if you want to be great wonderful but recognize that he who is greatest among you shall be your servant that's a new definition of greatness this morning the thing that i like about it by giving that definition of greatness it means that everybody can be great because everybody can say you don't have to have a college degree to serve you don't know you don't have to make your subject and your vote agree to serve you don't have to know about play to an aristotle to serve you don't have to know einstein's theory of relativity to serve you don't have to know the second theory of thermodynamics in physics to serve you only need a heart full of grace so generated by love and you can be that servant i know a man and i just want to talk about him a minute and maybe you will discover who i'm talking about as i go down the way because he was a great he just went about serving he was born in an obscure village the child of a poor peasant woman then he grew up in still another obscure village where he worked as a carpenter until he was 30 years old then for three years he just got on his feet and he was in a tenor and preacher and he went about doing some things he didn't have much he never wrote a book he never held an office he never had a family he never owned a house he never went to college he never visited a big city he never went 200 miles from where he was born he did none of the usual things at the world with the aid with greatness he had credentials but himself he was only when the died of public opinion turn again they call him ralph they turned against him they call him a rabble rouse they call him a troublemaker they said he was an agitator he practiced civil disobedience he broke injunctions and so he was turned over to have enemies and went through the mockery of a trowel and the the early of it all is that his friends turned him over to them one of his closest friends denied him another of his friends turned him over to his enemies and while he was dying the people who killed him get him off of his clothing the only possession that he had in the world when he was dead he was buried in a baritone through the pity of a friend 19 centers have come and gone today he stands as the most influential figure that ever entered human history all the armies that ever marched all the navies that ever sailed all parts that ever all came and went together and now fed the little people together have not affected the life of man on this earth as much as that one solitary life his name may be a familiar one but today i can hear him talking about him every now and then somebody says he's king of king and again i can hear somebody saying he's lord of lord some way of talking here somebody say in christ there is noish no west and then they go on and talk about in him there's no north and south but one great fellowship of love throughout the whole wide world he didn't have anything he just went around serving and doing good this morning you can be on his right hand and his left hand if you said it's the only way and every now and then i guess all things realistic how they hear about that day when we would be victimized with what is life's final common denominator that's something that we call death we all think about it and every now and then i think about my own death and i think about my own funeral and i don't think of it in a morbid sense and every now and then i ask myself what is it but i would want to say and i leave the word to you this morning if any of you around when i have to meet my day i don't want to long with you and if you get somebody to deliver the you as you tell them not to talk to me yeah every now and then i wonder what i want them to say tell them not to mention that i have a nobel peace prize that is important tell them not to mention that i have three or four hundred of awards that's not important tell them not to mention where i went to school i'd like somebody to mention that day then martin luther king jr. tried to give his life serving others i'd like for somebody to say that day that martin luther king jr. tried to love somebody i want you to say that day that i tried to be right on the wall question i want you to be able to say that day that i did try to feed the hungry i want you to be able to say that day that i did try in my life to cause those who were naked i want you to say on that day that i did try in my life to visit those who were imprisoned i want you to say that i tried to love and serve humanity yes if you want to say that i was a drum major say that i was a drum major for justice say that i was a drum major for peace i was a drum major for righteousness and all of the other shallow things will not matter i won't have any money to leave behind i won't have to find and luxurious things of life to leave behind but i just want to leave a committed life behind and that's all i want to say if i can help somebody as i pass along if i can cheer somebody with a word of song if i can show somebody he's traveling wrong then my living will not be in vain if i can do my duty as a christian or if i can bring salvation to a world once wrong if i can spread the message as the master talk then my living will not be in vain yes jesus i want to be on your right or your left side not for any selfish reason i want to be on your right or your left side not in terms of some political kingdom or ambition but i just want to be there in love and in justice and in truth and in commitment to others so that we can make of this whole world a new world