Why Jesus called a man a fool. I want to share with you a dramatic little story from the gospel as recorded by Saint Luke. It is a story of a man who by all standards of measurement would be considered a hal-e successful man. Yet Jesus called him a fool. If you would read that parable you will discover that the central character in the drama is a certain rich man. This man was so rich that his farm yielded tremendous crop. In fact the crops were so great that he didn't know what to do. And it occurred to him that he had only one alternative and that was to build some new and bigger barn so he could store all of his crops. This recording is briefly interrupted at this point. Take the unease, eat, drink and be married. That brother thought that was the end of life. But the parable doesn't end with that man making his statement. It ends by saying that God said to him, the fool. Not next year, not next week, not tomorrow but this night. The soul is required of the soul at the height of his prosperity. He died. Look at that parable. Think about it. Think of this man. If he lived in Chicago today he would be considered a big shot. He would have bound with all of the social prestige and all of the community influence that could be afforded. Most people would look up to him because he would have that something called money. And yet a Galilean peasant had the audacity to call that man a fool. Like for you to look at this parable with me and try to decipher the real reason that Jesus called this man a fool. Number one, Jesus called this man a fool because he allowed the means by which he lived to our distance the ends for which he lived. You see each of us lives in two realms. The within and the without. Now the within of our lives is that realm of spiritual ends expressed in art, literature, religion, and morality. The without of our lives is that complex of devices of mechanisms and instrumentalities by means of which we live. The house we live in, the part of the means by which we live, the car we drive, the clothes we wear, the money that we are able to accumulate and short the physical stuff that's necessary for us to exist. Now the problem is that we must always keep alive a demarcation between the two. This man was a fool because he didn't do that. He didn't make contributions to civil rights. He looked at suffering, humanity, and one concerned about it. He probably gave his white mink coats and convertible automobiles but he didn't give up what he needed most, love and affection. He probably provided bread for his children but he didn't give them any attention. He didn't really love them and so this man justly deserved his title. He was an eternal fool. He allowed the means by which he lived through our distance the ends for which he lived. Now number two this man was a fool because he failed to realize his dependence on others. Now if you read that parable in the Book of Luke, you will discover that this man orders about 60 words. And you know in 60 words he said I and I more than 15 times. This man was a fool because he said I and I so much until he lost the capacity to say we and I. This man talked like he could deal the bonds by himself like he could till the soil by himself. He failed to realize that wealth is always a result of the common wealth. No, my friends, I don't want you to forget it. No matter where you are today, somebody helped you to get that. In the largest sense we've got to see this in our world today. Our white brothers must see this. They haven't seen it up to now. The red problem facing our nation today in the area of race gives that it is the black man who to a large extent produced a wealth of this nation. The nation doesn't have sense enough to share its wealth and its power with the very people who made it so. I know when I'm talking about this morning, black man made a miracle wealth. That's why I tell you right now I'm not going anywhere. They can talk these groups. Some people talk about a separate state. Dr. Africa, I love Africa's house and sister home. I don't know about you. My grandfather and my great-grandfather did too much to build this nation for me to become my generation. For the pilgrim fathers landed at Clemoth in 1620, we were here. For Jefferson etched across the pages of history, the majestic words of the Declaration of Independence, we were here. For the beautiful words of the Star Spangled Banner were written, we were here. More than two centuries, our forebars labored here without wages they'd made cotton cane with our hands and with our backs and with our lid. They built the studded dogs. The stout factor is the impressive mansions of the south. Now this nation is telling us that we can't build. Negroes are excluded almost absolutely from the building trade, if really white. Why, because these jobs pay six, seven, eight, nine, and ten dollars an hour and they don't want Negroes to have. My fear that it's some don't happen soon and something messaged. The same indictment will come to America, the food. When man said he didn't know what to do with his goods, he had so many. Oh, I wish I could have advised him. A lot of places to go and now a lot of things that could be done. Our hunger stomachs had needed to be filled. Now we emptied pockets that needed access to money. America today my friends is also rich in goods. We have our bonds and every day our rich nation is building new enlarged and greater bond. You know we spend millions of dollars a day to store surplus food. But I want to say to America I know where you can store that food free of charge. In the wrinkles stomachs of the millions of God's children in Asia and Africa and South America and in our own nation who go to bed hungry at night. A lot of foods around because they fail to realize that dependence on others. Finally this man was a fool because he failed to realize his dependence on God. Do you know that man talk like he regulated the seasons. That man talked like he gave the rain to grapple with the fertility of the soil. That man talked like he provided the do. He was a fool because he ended up acting like he was the creator instead of a creature. This man's sin and foolishness is still alive today. You know a lot of people are forgetting God. People just get involved in other things. I tell you this morning my friend that's no way to get rid of one day. You're going to need him. The problems of life will begin to overwhelm you. Disappointments will begin to beat upon the door of your life like a tidal wave. If you don't have a deep and patient face you aren't going to be able to make it. I know this from my own experience. I grew up in the church. I'm the son of a preacher. I'm the great grandson of a preacher and the great great grandson of a preacher. My father is a preacher. My grandfather was a preacher. My great grandfather was a preacher. My own brother is a preacher. My dad is a preacher. I didn't have much choice. I guess. But I had grown up in the church and the church meant something very real to me. But it was a kind of inherited religion and I had never felt an experience with God in the way that you must have it. But if you're going to walk the lonely paths of this life one day after finishing school I was called to a little church down in Montgomery, Alabama a year later later by the name of Rosa Parks decided that she wasn't going to take it any longer. She stayed on a bus seat. You may not remember it because it's way back now several years. It was the beginning of a movement where 50, 000 black men and women refuse absolutely. We ride the city buses and we walk together for 381 days. That's what we got to learn in the north. The Negro have to learn to stick together. We start together. We sent out the call. No Negro road. The buses. It was one of the most amazing things I've ever seen in my life. The people of Montgomery asked me to serve as a spokesman. And as the president of the new organization the Montgomery Improvement Association that came into being to lead the boycott I couldn't say no. Then we started our struggle together. Things were going well for the first few days but then about 10 or 15 days later after the white people in Montgomery knew that we meant business. They started doing some nasty things. They started making nasty telephone calls and came to the point that some days more than 40 telephone calls come in threatening my life the life of my family, the life of my children. I took it for a while in a strong manner but I never will forget one night very late. It was around midnight and you can have some strange experiences at midnight. The telephone started ringing and I picked it up. Only over in was an ugly voice. That voice said to me in substance nigger. We are tired of you and your mess now. And if you aren't out of this town in three days we're going to blow your brains out and blow up your house. I've heard these things before but for some reason that night it got to me. I turned over and I tried to go to sleep but I couldn't sleep. It was frustrated, the will that. Then I got up and went back to the kitchen and I started warming some coffee thinking the coffee would give me a little relief. Then I started thinking about many things I pulled back on the theology and philosophy that I had just studied in the universities trying to give philosophical and theological reasons for the existence and the reality of saying an evil but the answer didn't quite come now. I sat there and thought about beautiful little daughter who had just been born about a month earlier. We have four children now but we only had one then. She was the darling of my life. I'd come in night after night and see that little jipple smile. I said at that table thinking about that little girl and thinking about the fact that she could be taken away from any minute. I started thinking about a dedicated devoted and lawyer wife who was over that sleep. She could be taken from me. I could be taken from her. I got to the point that I couldn't take it in the long I was weak. Something said to me you can't call on dad and now he's up in Atlanta 175 miles away. You can't even call on mama now. You've got to call on that something and that person that your daddy used to tell you about. That power that can make a way out of nowhere. I discovered then that religion had to become real to me and I had to know God for myself. I bowed down over that cup of coffee I never will forget it. Oh yes I prayed a prayer and I prayed out loud that night. I said Lord I'm down here trying to do what you're right. I think I'm right. I think the cause that we represent is right. The Lord must confess that I'm weak now faltering I'm losing my courage. I can't let the people see me like this because if they see me we can lose in my courage they will begin to get weak. It seemed that that moment that I could hear an inner voice saying to me. Martin Luther, stand up for righteousness. Stand up for justice. Stand up for truth. And Lord I will be with you even until the end of the world. I tell you I've seen the lightning flash. I've heard the thunder roll. I felt sin breakers dashing trying to conquer my soul but I heard the voice of Jesus saying still to fight on. She promised never to leave me. Never to leave me alone. No, never alone. From us never to leave me. Never to leave me alone. I'm going in believing in him. You better know him and know his name. Know how to call his name. Don't be a fool. Recognize your dependence on God. Since the gold Jeremiah raised the question is there no bomb in Gilead is there no position there. He raised it because he saw the good people suffering so often and evil people prospering. Since the late hour slave four parents came along. They two saw the injustices of life and had nothing to look forward to morning after morning but the raw high flip of overseer. Long rolls of cutting into sizzling heat but they did an amazing thing. Look back across the centuries. They took Jeremiah's question mark and straightened it into an exclamation point. They could sing there is a bomb in Gilead to make the wounded hold. I use a bomb in Gilead to heal the sins of soul and there's another stanza that I like so well. Sometimes I feel discouraged. I don't mind telling you this morning that sometimes I feel discouraged. I felt discouraged in Chicago. As I move through Mississippi and Georgia and Alabama, I feel discouraged. Living every day under the threat of death, I feel discouraged sometimes. Living every day under ecstantic criticisms, even from Negroes, I feel discouraged sometimes. Yes, sometimes I feel discouraged and feel my works in vain. But then the Holy Spirit reveres my soul again. I use a bomb in Gilead to make the wounded hold. I use a bomb in Gilead to heal the sins of soul.