So this morning I would like to use as a subject Paul's letter to American Christians.
Paul's letter to American Christians.
I would like to share with you an imaginary letter from the pin of the Apostle Paul.
The postmark reveals that it comes from the island of Crete.
And after noticing and opening the letter, I discovered that it was written in ill-formed sprawling Greek.
And at the top of the letter was this request, read to the people when they assembled themselves together.
And pass on to the other churches.
I have labored with the translation for several days.
At times it has been difficult, but now I think I have its substance.
And if in giving this letter the content sounds strange, lechignum rather than polineum, attributed to my lack of objectivity rather than Paul's lack of clarity.
It is quite miraculous indeed that the Apostle Paul should be writing a letter to you and me.
1900 years after his last letter appeared in the New Testament.
How that is possible I do not know
and I do not really care.
The important thing is that I can imagine Paul speaking to us in 1956, speaking to American Christians.
And here is the letter as it stands before me.
I an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God to you who are in America.
Grace and peace be unto you through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
I had long to be able to come to see you.
I have heard of you and what you are doing.
I have heard of the fascinating and astounding advances that you have made in the scientific and the material realm.
I have heard of your airplanes.
And I have heard about the fact that through your scientific genius you have been able to dwarf distance and place time in change.
Yes you have been able to carve highways through the stratosphere.
And so in your world you have made it possible to eat breakfast in London, England and lunch in New York City.
I have heard about your scar scraping buildings with a towel-steeping heavenwood as if to bathe that peach and the lofty blue.
I have heard of your great medical science and all of your advances in the medical realm.
And so you have been able to cure many dread plates and diseases.
And thereby to prolong your life and bring about greater security and physical well-being.
All of that is wonderful.
You can do things now that could not be done in the Greek or Roman world of my day.
You can make journeys now in one day that it took me three months to make.
That is wonderful.
You have gone a long, long way in material advances.
But America, I am wondering as I look at you from afar whether or not you have gone as far in the spiritual and moral realm.
It seems to me America that although you have advanced scientifically and materially, you lag behind spiritually and moral.
Your court thorough used to talk about improved means to an unimproved end.
And how often that is true, you have allowed the material means by which you live, to out distance the spiritual ends for which you live.
You have allowed your mentality to outrun your morality.
You have allowed your civilization to out distance your culture.
Yes, America, you go very high in the spiritual realm, I mean in the material realm.
But how far have you gone in the moral realm?
Through your scientific genius you have been able to make of the world a neighborhood.
But through your moral and spiritual genius you have failed to make of it a brotherhood.
And what does it profit a man?
As that same Lord said, that same Lord that met me on the Damascus road, what does it profit a man to gain the whole world of means, airplanes, subways, and all the skyscraping buildings and lose the end, the soul.
So America, I would urge you to seek to bring your spiritual advances up to your material advances.
I am in peril also to write you, consigning the tremendous responsibilities confronting Christians attempting to live in a sub-Christian age.
Yes, I had to do that.
If I had to live in an un-Christian world, an ever-Christian has a basic responsibility to live a Christian in an un-Christian world.
They tell me that as some among you even in the churches who give that ultimate allegiance to the patterns of the world, they want to be accepted socially.
They are afraid to be ostracized so they conform to the patterns of the world.
They live by some such philosophy as this.
Everybody is doing it, so it must be all right.
And so, so often in your age, right has become merely something of taking a gallop pole of the majority opinion.
How many are living like that?
How many people are giving the ultimate allegiance to this way?
But America, may I say to you, as I said to the Roman church, be ye not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind.
And may I also say to you that you have a dual citizenry, you have a two-fold citizenry.
You are not only a citizen of this world, but you are a citizen of another world.
You live both in time and eternity, both in heaven and earth.
You must come to see that although it is true that you live now in the colony of time, you must always take your orders from the empire of eternity.
You must come to see that America, that your ultimate allegiance is not to the government, not to the state, not to the nation, but your ultimate allegiance is to God, and sometimes it's necessary to speak out against the state in order to stand up with God.
Or America will you come to see this?
But not only that America, I have read some of your psychology.
And I hear you talking a great deal about maladjustment.
It is the ring and cry of the child as psychologist, maladjustment.
And certainly nobody wants to be maladjusted.
Everybody wants to be adjusted.
But America, I want to call upon you if you're going to be followers of Christ to be maladjusted.
I never intend to America to adjust myself to some things
and I hope you will never adjust to it.
In an age amazingly adjusted to war, I call upon you to be maladjusted.
In an age amazingly adjusted to imperialism and colonialism, I call upon you to be maladjusted.
In an age amazingly adjusted to hate and malice, I call upon you to be maladjusted.
My plea to you in America is to be maladjusted.
I understand that you have a great economic system in America that you call capitalism.
And through that economic system you have been able to do wonders.
You have been able to build up the richest nation in the world.
And through that system you have been able to build up the greatest productive system that the world has ever known.
And all of that's fine.
But America, that is a danger that you will misuse your capitalismism.
I'm not an economist and I cannot criticize your economic system from the point of view of the economists, but I can criticize it from a moral point of view.
And I still contend America that money can be the root of all evil.
That money can lead one to live a life of gross materialism.
And I'm worried that too many people in America are more concerned about making a living than making a life.
Yes, America money can lead to exploitation.
And so often you have done that.
For they tell me that one tenth of one percent of the population controls more than 50 percent of the wealth.
Or America how you've taken necessities from the masses to give luxuries to the classes.
Your capitalism can be used very well.
You can use it to wipe poverty from the face of the earth.
You can use it to lift the whole level of humanity.
You can lift it to make mankind come to the point that it is destined to come to.
Your wealth can be used to a noble end.
You have it at your disposal.
Use it for that America.
Or I would that I could be with you.
I would that I could say to you face to face what I am trying to say to you in writing how I long to be with you.
Let me rush on and say something about the church.
I must say to you once more as I have said so often before that the church is the body of Christ.
And then the body of Christ that can be no division.
The body of Christ that can be no disunity.
But I'm disturbed about America and what is happening there concerning the body of Christ.
They tell me that in America you have within Protestantism more than 256 denominations.
And the tragedy America is not so much that you have more than 256 denominations.
But the fact that all of these denominations are warring against each other and trying to make it appear that they have the only truth.
And all of this narrow sectarianism, this narrow denominationalism, is destroying the unity of the church.
America you must come to see that God is not a Baptist, that God is not a Methodist, that God is not an Episcopalian.
God is bigger than any of our denominations.
You must come to see America that all of this is man-made.
But even as I look at Roman Catholicism I'm disturbed about that because it stands out also with an arrogance which becomes a spiritual arrogance.
Making the world appear that it has the only truth, standing with its noble Pope almost taking the place of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
And so when he speaks ex Cathedral he becomes infallible.
I'm disturbed about any earthly creation that tends to claim infallibility.
I'm disturbed about any church that refuses to cooperate with other churches with the pretense that it is the only true church.
That is so much in the church that is destroying the body of Christ and in the body of Christ that can be no division and no disunity.
But America another thing disturbed me about your church.
You have a Negro church and you have a white church or America that is quite disturbing for that cannot exist within the true body of Christ.
How did that thing ever get into being any way?
You have allowed segregation to come into the church America or how tragic.
When you stand up on Sunday morning to sing in Christ there is no east to west.
Isn't it tragic that you stand in the most segregated hour of your Christian nation?
They tell me that is more integration in sports arenas and nightclub.
That is in the Christian church or how tragic that is.
How to calling that is.
They tell me that there are even Christians among you who try to justify segregation on the basis of the Bible.
They try to argue that the Negro is inferior by nature because of North curse upon the children of Ham or my friends or America.
This is blaspheming.
This is against everything that the Christian religion stands for.
This is against the will of the Almighty God and America I would urge you to get rid of that something called segregation.
It is a danger of evil.
It is an evil which must be wiped over the face of the earth if man is ever to come to his full maternity.
America don't compromise with it.
Don't play with it or I praise your supreme court for passing a great decision just a year to ago.
And I praise all men in your nation of goodwill who are willing to follow it.
But they tell me you still have some brothers among you in Alabama, in Mississippi, in Georgia, in Louisiana and Florida, who would make that legislative halls ring loud with the words interposition and nullification.
They have lost the true meaning of democracy and Christianity.
And I would urge you to plead with your brothers with patience and understanding goodwill and tell them that this isn't the way.
May I say just a word to those of you who are struggling against this evil.
Let me say to you to always struggle against it with Christian methods and with Christian weapons.
Never succumb to the temptation of becoming bitter.
Never succumb to the temptation of indulging in hate campaigns.
You must at all moments move with wise restrained and calm reasonableness.
Keep pressing on but press on with discipline and dignity and use only the weapon of love and let no man cool you so low as to hate him.
Look at your presser hard enough to see in him something of God's image.
Yes, it might be just a spark but if you work on him long enough it can develop into a leap in flame.
So I would say to those of you who are warring and struggling against your pressure to use Christian methods and Christian weapons and let him know that as you struggle you are not attempting to defeat him.
Not attempting to humiliate him, not attempting to get rid of him or to pay him back.
Let him know that you are seeking to help him as well as yourself.
Let him know that the festering sort of segregation debilitates the white man as well as a Negro.
Let him know that as you seek to rid the earth of this evil as segregation you are seeking to help him also.
Give that message all over the world and live by that principle and get rid of that something called segregation America or it is not only rationally inexplicable but it is more or less scandalous.
You must get rid of it if you are to be a Christian nation.
Yes America
I realize that some of you will give your life to this something.
That would be white people who could wield who would do it and that would be Negro's who would struggle to get rid of it.
But I want to say this to you that as you struggle don't despair.
Realize that whenever you stand up for right and righteousness, whenever you stand up for truth, whenever you stand up for goodness you will be persecuted but don't despair about it.
Sometimes it might mean going to jail but if that is the case, be willing to fill up to jail because I had to go to jail.
It might even mean physical death but if physical death is a price that some must pay to free that children from a life of permanent psychological death then nothing could be more honorable.
Don't worry about the persecutions America you are going to have that if you stand up for truth and goodness.
Oh that happened throughout my life as soon as I was converted I was denied by the disciples at Jerusalem.
Then I was later tried for heresy at Jerusalem.
Yes I was beaten at Thessalonica and I was mobbed at Ephesus.
I was jailed at Philippi and I went down to Athens
and I was depressed there.
Yes I was even shipwrecked in Malta but I'm still going
and I still believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the only hope of the world.
I still believe that in standing up for the gospel of Jesus, nothing in the world is greater.
This is the end of life.
This is the end of the universe, the end of the universe is not to be happy.
The end is not to avoid suffering but the end of life is to do the will of God come what may.
Oh America will you hear that and will you follow that before it is too late.
Then I must say one other thing.
You know I said to the church at Karin that love is a principal thing
and I want to still say that to America.
America
I want you to know that you might move high in the world.
You might come to the point that you might eloquent in your speech.
You might master the English language.
All of your grammar might be present.
You might move high.
You might move with all of the eloquence of an articulate speech.
But I want you to realize America that it is still true that even if you can speak with the tongues of men and angels and have not loved you are becoming sounding brass or a tickle ensemble.
Yes America you may have the gift of prophecy so that you can understand all mysteries you may have scientific insights so that you can break out into the storehouse of nature.
Yes America you might have all of the mysteries and understand them so that you can remove the mountains of material obstacle.
You may move all of the mountains that stand before you.
But unless you have love it means nothing.
But even more America you may give your goods to feed the poor.
You might have tower high in philanthropy.
You may give great gifts to the United of you.
You may give great gifts to your colleges and universities.
You may give big money.
But if you have not loved it means nothing
yes
and you may even give your body to be burned.
You may even stand up and die life as a mother.
You may stand before the universe as that honorable person who was willing to stand up as a mother.
But even if you do that and you have love it means nothing.
Yes
America
it is possible to be self-decented in one one's denial and set right right in some self-right.
It is possible for one to generate an order to feed his ego and it is possible for one to be pious in order to feed his pride.
And so man has a tragic capacity of being able to create a heightening virtue to a tragic vice.
Yes even if you give your goods to feed the poor.
Have not loved it means nothing.
You may bill your all of your great institutions.
You may have all knowledge.
You may bill your great Harvard and your great Yale.
You may have all of your institutions of learning and all of your PhDs and your MAs and ABs.
But if you have not loved America it means nothing.
I still want you to know that love is a principle thing in the universe.
I want you to know that at the center of life stands love and that it is the more durable in the world.
If you follow that America you will build a great nation.
I must get ready to leave now.
Timothy 3. 2. 2 delivered this letter and I must take leave to go to another church.
But just before leave let me say this to your America.
I said a lot to you about loving.
I said a lot to you about being moral and living noble principles.
And I know that you often try to do that.
But I want to say something to you about the meaning of the gospel.
In trying to live up to the high noble principles of this religion you often fall short.
And I know how you felt sometimes you tried to live up to it
and you didn't quite make it.
Sometimes you felt that you could do it alone but the more you tried the more you discovered that you couldn't do it alone.
And I know how you were caught up in the tragic dimensions of sin both individual and collective.
I see how as you live life on every level of your life confronted with sin and sometimes you have to cry out as I have to cry out.
The good that I would I do not in the evil that I would not that I do.
Then as you try to follow the law of love you find yourself saying oh wretched man that I am.
You discover somehow that the more you try the more you discover that you can't do it alone.
And oh you end up in despair you end up in a tragic state you feel that you have lost out.
Yes I have been like that but when I came to that point when I came to the point of feeling that I couldn't make it alone.
When I came to the point of realizing that I was too weak to make it.
I discovered something else I reached out and saw breaking out of eternity into time the powerful dimensions of God's grace.
And where sin abounded grace abounded even more exceeding me.
And so I want to say to the America reach out and if you reach far enough you will discover God's grace.
It is that grace that can lift you from the fatigue of despair to the buoyancy of hope.
It is that grace that can lift you from night to midnight to sorrow to the daybreak of joy.
It is a grace that helps you to see that by the grace of the Almighty God you can live in this world and you can live this life.
You can see the face of the Almighty God with all of His eternal principle.
In the midst of man's tragic sin stand God some some may grace.
I'm a sacred bye to you now.
Maybe I will not see you but I will meet you in God's eternity.
May the grace of God and the sweet communion of the Holy Spirit be with you today tomorrow and even forever.
This is the letter and now comes the living of it.
Let us pray.
Oh God our gracious and Father help us to reach out in our lives and see the great principles of life.
Help us to see the work and worth of apostle Paul who stands at the center of our faith is one of the most noble Christians and who stands as a challenge to us in all ages and in all generations.
Help us to realize that all times the relevance of the gospel and every nation and in every community.
The name and spirit of Jesus we pray.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.
Amen.