I have the pleasure to present to you, Dr. Martin Luther King, dear. I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. 5 years ago, a great American in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. But 100 years later, the Negro Steel is not free. 100 years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. The Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity 100 years later. The Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition in a sense we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promise or a note to whichever American was to fall out. This note was a promise at all men. Yes, black men as well as white men would be guaranteed the unalienable rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promise or a note in so far as her citizens of color are concerned. Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked insufficient firm. But we refuse to believe that the Bank of Justice is bankrupt. We refuse to believe that our insufficient funds and the great folks of opportunity of this nation. So we've come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also come to this hell of spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. Now is the time to lift our nation from the quick sense of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. This weltering summer of the Negroes legitimate discontent will not pass until that is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. 1963 is not an end but a beginning. Those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. Now will be neither rest nor tranquillity in America until the Negroes granted his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. But that is something that I must say to my people who stand on the wrong threshold which leads into the palace of justice. In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. We must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force for so far. The marvelous new militancy which has endowed for the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people. For many of our white folks has ever been inspired by our presence here today. Now come to realize that that's the end of our life. We must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. We must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. We cannot turn back. Now those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, when will you be satisfied? We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is a great fit for all the young spiritual horrors of police brutality. We can never be satisfied as long. As long as our body is hidden with a particular travel, they are not getting larger in the motel to the highways and the hotels with the city. We cannot be satisfied as long as the Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and the Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. No, no we are not satisfied and we will not be satisfied until justice rolls down like waters and righteousness like a mighty street. I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail sale. Some of you have come from areas where your press quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution. And I got by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that online suffering is redemptive. Go back to Mississippi. Go back to Alabama. Go back to South Carolina. Go back to Georgia. Go back to Louisiana. Go back to the slums and get holes in our northern cities. Knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley of despair. I say to you today my friend. So even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed. We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal. I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners, will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. I have a dream that one day, even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. I have a dream that my four little children, will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day down in Alabama with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips tripping with the words of interposition and nullification. One day right down in Alabama, little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. I have a dream today. I have a dream that one day every valor shall be exalted. Every hill in mounting shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the goal of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together. This is our hope. This is the faith that I go back to the South with, with this faith. We will be able to heal out of the mountain of despair, a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. This will be the day. This will be the day when all of God's children will be able to sing with new meaning, my country tears of thee. Sweet land of liberty of the icing, land where my father's died, land of the pilgrim's pride. From every mountain side, let freedom ring in the Americas to be a great nation. This must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hill tops of New Hampshire, let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening alligators of Pennsylvania, let freedom ring from the snow cap walkers of Colorado, let freedom ring from the crevace of slopes of California. But not only that, let freedom ring from stone mountain of Georgia, let freedom ring from look out mountain of Tennessee, let freedom ring from every hill and whole hill of Mississippi. From every mountain side, let freedom ring and when this happens, when we allow freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city. We will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual. We will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men and white men, will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men.