bishop copeland, miss foreman, and to all of the delegates attending this significant conference of the methodist student movement, ladies and gentlemen. i need not pause to say how very delighted and honored i am to be here tonight and to be a part of this very significant conference. i certainly want to express my deep personal appreciation to the committee and to all of you for extending the invitation. it is always a rich and rewarding experience for me to take a brief break from the day-to-day demands of our struggle for freedom and human dignity and discuss the issues involved in that struggle with college and university students and concerned people of goodwill all over this nation and all over the world. so i can assure you that it is a great privilege to be here with you tonight and be grateful to you for your warm expressions of support and i bring you greetings from those hundreds and thousands of individuals who are involved in the civil rights struggle all over this nation. many of you are involved in that struggle and we are all in it together and by and through the grace of god and continued work we will be able to solve this great problem which is the chief moral dilemma of our nation. i'm sure that most of you have read that arresting little story from the pin of washington irving entitled rip van winkle. and one thing that we usually remember about the story of rip van winkle is that he slept 20 years. but that is another point in that little story that is almost always completely overlooked. it was a sign on the inn in the little town on the hudson from which rip went up into the mountain for his long sleep. when he went up the sign had a picture of king george iii of england. when he came down 20 years later the sign in the inn had a picture of george washington. the first president of the united states. when rip van winkle saw the picture of george washington he was amazed. he was completely lost. he knew not who he was. this tells us that the most striking thing about the story of rip van winkle is not merely that he slept 20 years but that he slept through a revolution. while he was peacefully snoring up in the mountain, a great revolution was taken place in the world, a revolution that at points would change the course of history. and yet rip knew nothing about it. he was asleep. that is nothing more tragic than to sleep through a revolution. one of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people find themselves standing amid a great period of social change. and yet they fail to achieve the new attitudes, the new thought patterns, the new mental outlooks that the new situation demands. so many people fail to remain awake through great revolutions. i need not remind you tonight that that is a great revolution taken place in our nation and in the world. it is a social revolution sweeping away an old order and bringing them to being a new order. we have seen it on the international scale with the demise of colonialism and we see it in our own nation with the gradual decline, the gradual defeat of the system of racial segregation. the wind of change is blowing all over our world and all over our nation. the great challenge facing everyone assemble here tonight, the great challenge facing america, the great challenge facing every christian is to remain awake through this great social revolution. for we have basic christian responsibilities and basic christian challenges as a result of this new age which is emerging. and so tonight i would like to suggest some of the things that we must do if we are to be responsible christians and the midst of the racial revolution that is taken place in our nation and in the world. first i'd like to say that we are challenged more than ever before to achieve a world perspective. any individual or any nation feels that it can live alone today is sleeping through a revolution. but in a real sense we are all interdependent. not as true that the geographical oneness of our age has come into being to a large extent because of man's scientific ingenuity. man through his scientific genius has been able to dwarf distance and place time in change. noget planes have compressed into minutes distances at once took weeks and even months. i think bob hope has adequately described this new jet age in which we live. and i know it isn't the usual thing for a baptist preacher to be quoting bob hope. but i think he's described this age very well. he said it is an age in which it is possible to take a non-stop flight from los angeles to new york city a distance of almost 3, 000 miles. and if on taking off in los angeles you develop hiccups, you will hick in los angeles and cup in new york city. you know it is possible because of the time difference to take a flight from tokyo, japan on sunday night and arrive in seattle, washington on the preceding saturday morning. and when your friends ask you when you left tokyo you will have to say i left tomorrow. this is the kind of world in which we live. now this is a bit humorous. i'm trying to laugh a basic fact into all of us. and it is simply this that man through his scientific genius and his technological genius has made of this world a neighborhood. now we are challenged through our moral and ethical commitment to make over the brotherhood. for we must all learn to live together as brothers or we will all perish together as foods. this is a great challenge facing our nation and our world today. no nation can live alone. no individual can live alone. and it is necessary to see this. i remember some time ago mrs. king and i had the privilege of journeying to that great nation known as india. i never will forget the experience. it was a marvelous experience to meet and talk with the great leaders of india and to meet and talk with hundreds and thousands of people all over the cities and villages of that vast country. these experiences will remain dear to me as long as the courts of memories are lengthened. but my friends, i say to you tonight that bear with those depressing moments. how can one avoid being depressed when he sees evidences with his own eyes of millions of people going to bed hungry at night? how can one avoid being depressed when he sees with his own eyes millions of people sleeping on the sidewalks every night? they have no beds to sleep in. they have no houses to go in. how can one avoid being depressed when he discovers it out of india's population? more than 400 million people, some 380 million make an income of less than $90 a year. most of these people have never seen a doctor or dentist. as i notice these conditions, something within me cried out, can we in america stand idly by and not be concerned in an answer came or no? because the destiny of the united states is tied up with the destiny of india and every other nation. and i started thinking about the fact that we spend millions of dollars a day to store surplus food in our country. i said to myself, i know where we can store that food free of charge, in the wrinkles stomachs of the millions of god's children, in asia, in africa, in south america, and in our own nation who go to bed hungry at night, it may well be that we spend far too much of our national budget establishing military bases around the world, rather than bases of genuine concern and understanding. all i'm saying is simply this, that all life is interrelated. and in a real sense, we are all caught in an inescapable network of mutuality tied in a single garment of destiny. whatever affects one directly affects all indirectly. for some strange reason, i can never be what i ought to be until you are what you ought to be and you can never be what you ought to be until i am what i ought to be. this is the interrelated structure of reality. john donne caught it years ago and placed it in graphic terms. no man is an island and tied itself. every man is a piece of the continent apart of the main. he goes on to the end to say, any man's death diminishes me because i'm involved in mankind. therefore never sinned to know for whom the bail tolls. it tolls for thee. it seems to me that a recognition of this is a basic responsibility that we as christians face and the midst of the social changes that are taking place in our world. let me say secondly that we have a christian responsibility in this racial crisis and this revolution to reaffirm the essential immorality of racial segregation. now over the last few years we've had many important legal battles and all of these battles have been for the purpose of establishing the constitutionality of integration and the unconstitutionality of segregation. it was very important to have these legal battles. it was very important to have the supreme court standing up in 1954 saying that separate facilities are inherently unequal and that the old placid doctrine of 1896 must go. that to segregate a child on the basis of his race is to deny that child equal protection of the law. this was important and remains important but where as christians must come to see not only the unconstitutionally constitutionality of segregation. we must reaffirm over and over again that racial segregation is sinful and immoral whether it's in the public schools whether it's in housing whether it is in the christian church or any other area of life. segregation is morally wrong and sinful. segregation is evil to use the words of the great jewish philosopher martin bubba because it substitutes an eye at relationship for the eye of our relationship. to use the thinking of st. thomas aquinas segregation is evil because it is based on human laws that are out of harmony with the moral natural and eternal laws of the universe. somewhere the great theologian paul tillic has said that sin is separation. what is segregation but an existential expression of man's tragic estrangement is awful sinfulness is tragic separation and every christian must see this and see that segregation in any form is a cancer in the body politic of our nation which must be removed before our democratic and moral health can be realized. we must set out to get rid of segregation all over america now henceforth and forevermore this is a challenge facing every christian. now the church has another thing that it can do in the ideational realm. it is necessary now to get rid of the notion once and for all that they are superior and inferior. the tragedy of segregation the tragedy of slavery is not only what it does to one in terms of physical inconvenience but what it does to the soul these systems score the soul they damage the personality they end up giving the segregator a false sense of superiority while leaving the segregated with the false sense of inferiority. the whole doctrine of quite supremacy has been based on this idea of one racial group being superior to another racial group. now certainly many of the scholars and in academic circles we have found individuals working in these areas and they've made it clear that that is no evidence for this great anthropologist like margaret meade, ruth benedict, the late melvin huskowitz and others made it clear that as a result of long years of study they see no evidence for the idea of superior and inferior races that may be superior and inferior individuals intellectually academically within all races but there are no superior or inferior races and yet this notion still lingers around. now there was a time strangely enough that men tried to justify this notion on the basis of the bible so tragic what people will do with religion and the bible to crystallize the status quo and rationalize and try to justify their own prejudices. so the bible and religion were misused to preserve an unjust status quo. it was argued that the negro was inferior by nature because of noah's curse upon the children of ham. then the apostle paul's dictum became a watchword servants be obedient to your master and one brother had probably read the logic of the great philosopher aristotle. you will remember that aristotle did a great deal to bringing to being what we now know as pharmacological and then pharmacological there's a big word called the syllogism. the syllogism has a major premise, a minor premise, and a conclusion. so this brother decided to put his argument for the inferiority of the negro and the framework of an aristotelian syllogism. he came out with his major premise. all men are made in the image of god. then came his minor premise. god as everybody knows is not a negro. therefore the negro is not a man. this was a kind of reasoning that prevailed. now the whole i think people have gotten away from this. i hope so because i read the other day where one of our white brothers in mississippi said that god was a charter member of the white citizens council but i think on the hold of people have gotten away from the biblical and religious justification for. now it's done on several sociological and cultural grounds. you've heard the arguments. the negro is not culturally ready for integration and if you integrate of the schools and all areas of life you will pull the white race back a generation and then comes the other argument. the negro is a criminal. you see he has a large, a great crime rate and the arguments going ahead in for 19. the individuals who said fourth these arguments never go on to say if they are lagging standards in the negro community and they're certainly all they lag because of segregation and discrimination. criminal responses are environmental and not racial. social isolation, economic deprivation, z's, poverty breed, crime, whatever the racial group may be and it is a torturous logic to use the tragic results of segregation as an argument for the continuation of it. it is necessary to go back to the call to leave. somewhere we must come to see all over this land that all men are made in the image of god and that that is no truth. the idea that that are superior and inferior racist we've had enough examples of individuals who were members of oppress groups. some are going amid the long night of oppression and rising up to plunge against cloud field nights of affliction, new emblazing stars of inspiration thereby justifying the conviction of the port. fleecy locks and black complexion cannot forfeit nature's claim. skin may differ but affection dwells in black and white the same where i so tall as to reach the pole or to grasp the ocean at a span. i must be measured by my soul. the mind is a standard of the man and with this we can see the truth and the equality of all mankind. now after we've worked in these various areas of clearing up ideas christian responsibility means that it is necessary to engage in creative and massive action programs to get rid of segregation and discrimination and our nation and racial injustice wherever it exists in the world. in other words we must work not only in the realm of developing a rather clearing up false ideas but it is necessary to work in the realm of action in order to bring about the kind of reforms that would bring the changes that are necessary to make racial justice a reality. now as we're going to do this several things are necessary. first it's the churches to move out into the arena of political action. i mean into the arena of a massive action program it must remove the yoke of segregation from its own body. this is a great challenge facing the christian community all over this nation and i need not to remind you my friends that in spite of the progress that has been made certainly some strides have been made to make us all very happy. you've done things in the methodist church that are most significant in this area and we're all inspired by. i just talked with my good friend bishop thomas who has just been pointed to serve in an area where a negro bishop has never served and most of the congregations that fall under his jurisdiction happen to be white congregations. this happens to be a marvelous step forward and it is always great to see the church moving on to remove the shackles of segregation from its own body and in spite of the progress, in spite of the noble pronouncements that have been made by so many ecclesiastical councils and so many of the conventions and conferences of our great denominations within protestantism and within roman catholicism. we know that these pronouncements filter down all too slowly in some situations to local congregations as i stand before you tonight. i must still say that the church is the most segregated major institution in america and we must face the shameful fact. 11 o'clock on sunday morning when we stand to sing in christ there is no east to west. we stand in the most segregated hour of america the most segregated school of the week is the sunday school. this means that all too many christians have had a high blood pressure of creeds and an anemones of these. thank god we are beginning now to shake the lethager from our souls and it is my hope that we will move on to get rid of segregation in all of its dimensions within the church. that not only means the church itself the church institutions such as hospitals such as colleges and universities and i must face the fact that my own home time of atlanta georgia that i live right around the corner from the georgia baptist hospitals one of the largest hospitals in atlanta. but a negro cannot be treated in that hospital. a negro boy was hit by an automobile not many months ago and carried to that hospital. a boy was all but dying and they refused service. this is a hospital that has a name of the church. a big denomination indeed the largest denomination in the south and so this means that that is a great deal of work that must be done if we are to be true to the gospel of jesus christ and if we are to make it relevant in this social situation. now the other thing that the church must do is it removes a yoke of segregation from its own body and an action program. it's got to get rid of one or two myths that make it impossible to engage in action as long as you believe in. one is what i call the myth of time. i'm sure you've heard this argument that only time can solve the problem of racial injustice. there are those who still saying to the negro and his allies and the white community just be nice and patient and continue to pray and then a hundred or two hundred years of problem will work itself out because only time can solve the problem. i believe that there's an answer to that myth and that is the time is neutral. it can be used either constructively or destructively and i'm afraid my friends that the forces of eel will in our nation, the extreme writers of our nation have used time much more effectively than the forces of goodwill and it may well be that we will have to repent in this generation not merely from the vitraulic words and the violent actions of the bad people who will bomb a church in birmingham, alabama but for the appalling silence and indifference of the good people who sit around and say wait on time somewhere along the way. somewhere we must come to see that human progress never rolls in on the wheels of inevitability. it comes through the tireless efforts and the persistent work of dedicated individuals who are willing to be co-workers with god and without this hard work time itself becomes an ally of the primitive forces of social stagnation and so we must help time and we must realize that the time is always right to do right. now that is another myth that gets around a lot and i hope it will not influence the church. it has influenced all too many segments of the church but i hope it will not do it any longer that is the idea of that legislation can't really play a role in this period of social transition because you got to change the heart. we heard that a great deal during the presidential campaign and the pound of that with those who believed that and we heard senator goldwater repeat this over the nation a great deal that legislation can't solve a problem and we face in civil rights and got to change the heart and you can't change the heart through legislation. now i would admit that at least of those who follow that idea are uttering a half truth. i would agree that if this problem is to be solved ultimately it will be necessary for men not merely to be obedient to that which can be enforced by the law. they must rise to the majestic heights of being obedient to the unenforceable. i realize that if this problem is to be solved ultimately it will be necessary for every white person in this nation to delve down within to such as home, heart and soul come to see that integration is what should be because it is natural and right and not merely because the law says it. this problem is to be solved ultimately every white person of this country must treat every negro member of any minority group right because at bottom all men or brothers i realize this and i must go on to give the other side because i am convinced of those who say that legislation can't deal with this issue, happen to be uttering a half truth. it may be true that you cannot legislate integration but you can legislate desegregation. it may be true that morality cannot be legislated but behavior can be regulated. it may be true that the law can't change the heart but it can restrain the heartless. it may be true that the law can't make a man love me but it can restrain him from lynching me and i think that's pretty important also. so while the law may not be able to change the hearts of men it does change the habits of men and when you begin to change the habits of men pretty soon the attitude will be changed and the hearts will be changed. so it is a role of the church to support meaning for legislation and i'm happy to say that as we were struggling to get the civil rights bill through and we had the support of so many elements and segments of the church community all across this nation and i'm convinced that the civil rights bill is a reality today because the religious forces of our nation are willing to join with the civil rights organizations and the other forces of good will and it was this coalition of conscience that brought it about and this kind of coalition of conscience must continue if our problems ought to be solved. we have a problem now in many states no state really can boast of clean hands in the area of brotherhood but we know that some are worse than others and that is a state in our union which i believe everybody here tonight is concerned about even those who may live in that state because one cannot love a situation bless somehow in the midst of that love in love they seek to rectify the situation i live in the south and i say to you i love the south and i'm going to stay there and work with this problem in my love for the south. and i think it is time for all people of good will in this country including the people of good will who live in the state of mississippi to rise up now and say mississippi cannot continue to trample over its negro citizens with our feet of oppression that almost that almost a million negroes living in mississippi some nine hundred and seventy thousand to be exact almost four hundred and seventy five thousand heart of voting age and yet only at about twenty eight thousand registered last year state of mississippi only allowed sixteen hundred and some negroes to register she continues at this pace it will take exactly one hundred and thirty two years to get half of the eligible negroes in the state of mississippi registered this cannot continue something must be done to arouse a conscience of the state of mississippi something must be done to cause persons within that state to rise up but no state in our union has more blatantly trampled over the basic human rights of its citizens and the state of mississippi no state in our union has brutalized and terrorized its citizens as much as a state of mississippi no state has murdered as many individuals without having anything done about it and now something must be done that is a challenge getting ready to take place next monday there's a challenge that should concern everybody of goodwill that challenge will be the basis of the fact that the congressman of that state are improperly elected because of the whole cell denied the right to vote to the negro citizens of the state of mississippi and there is my hope that everyone assemble here tonight will tonight or tomorrow morning write your congressman and let him know that you want him to vote in favor of the challenge so that these congressmen will not be seated and that the fairness resolution will go through and the state of mississippi will have to stand up if our house of representatives will go on record seating these five congressmen it will only give encouragement to the brutality to the violence and to man's and humanity to man existing in the state of mississippi and so it is a challenge for the church to work even in this area because this is so basic after we have cleared up the mists that surround us and support it legislation it is necessary for the church to support the action programs which move out into the arena of political action which move out into the realm of peaceful nonviolent demonstrations when they are necessary and i would like to say just a few words about the philosophy and the method of nonviolent since it has been so basic in our struggle across these years as i said i want to open by saying that i am still convinced that nonviolence is the most potent weapon available to oppress people in their struggle for freedom and human dignity i am still convinced that if the negroes succumbs to the temptation of using violence and struggle unborn generations will be the recipients of a long and desolate night of bitterness and our chief legacy to the future will be an endless reign of meaningless chaos that is another way this way of nonviolence has a way of disarming the opponent it exposes his moral defenses it weakens his morale and at the same time it works on his conscience and he just doesn't know how to handle it if he doesn't beat you wonderful if he tries to beat you you develop the quiet courage of accepting blows without retaliating if he doesn't put you in jail wonderful nobody within a sense loves to go to jail if he puts you in jail you go in that jail and transform it from a dungeon of shame to a haven of freedom and human dignity even if he tries to kill you you develop the inner conviction that that is something so dear something so precious something so eternally true that they are worth dying for and if a man has not discovered something that he will die for he had been fit to live this is what the nonviolence is so that is power in this way because it has a way of disarming the opponent but not only this it gives individuals engaged in a struggle a way of seeking to secure moral ends through moral means one of the great debates of history has been over the whole question of ends and means that have been those individuals philosophers in many instances whole systems of government in some instances who are yet that the in justifies and means i think along with many others one of the great weaknesses of tragedies of communism is found right here read lenin as he says in substance and any method is justifiable to bring about the goal of the clash of society this is where the nonviolent movement would break with communism or any other system that argue that the end justifies the means this can't be true because in a real sense the end is pre-existing in the means a means represent the ideal in the making and the end in process and in the long run of history ill moral means cannot bring about moral ends and it is marvelous to have a method of struggle which will take into account the ends that you seek as you move through the methods so as you seek justice as an end you use just methods to get there and as you seek a nonviolent society in the end you use non nonviolent means to get there and it is wonderful to have a method of struggle which says that it is possible to struggle to secure moral ends through moral means another thing about this philosophy is that insist that it is possible to struggle against an unjust and evil system and yet maintain an attitude of active goodwill for the perpetrators of that unjust system and points this is the most misunderstood aspect of nonviolence when one seeks to live it as a creed and not merely use it as a strategy it says that you somehow place the love ethic at the center of your struggle people began to say what do you mean how can you love those who are pressing you how can you love those who are using violence to destroy and remove your make and i always have to answer by saying that when i talk about love in this area i'm not talking about emotional bosch i'm not talking about a sentimental response talking about something much deeper it would be nonsense to urge oppressed people to love their violent oppressors in an affectionate sense i realize this fortunately the greek language comes to ia trying to determine the meaning of love at this point there are three words in greek for love as a word eras plato used to talk about it a great deal in his dialogues the yearning of the soul for the realm of the divine it has come now to to mean a sort of a romantic love and so in this sense we all know about eras we've experienced it in its dimensions and we have read about it in all of the beauties of literature in a sense i guess shakespeare was talking about eras when he talked about the beauty of love love is not love which alters winded alteration finds a binge with a remover to remove it is an ever-fixit mob for looks on temperson is never shaken it is a star to ever wondering bark in a sense i guess it getting poor was talking about eras when he talked about his beautiful anabelle lead with a love surrounded by the halo of eternity this is eras the greek language talks about filet or which is another level of love on this level you really love because you all love you love people that you like it's a sort of reciprocal love this indeed is friendship then the greek language comes out with another word it's a word agape agape is more than eras it's more than an aesthetic or romantic love it is more than friendship agape is understanding creative redemptive goodwill for all men it is an overflowing love which seeks nothing in return theologians would say that it is the love of god operating in the human heart and so when one rises to love on this level he loves every man not because he likes him not because his ways appeal to him but he loves every man because god loves him and he rises to the level of loving the person who does it evil deed while hating the deed that the person does and i think this is what jesus meant when he said to love your enemies i'm happy didn't say like the enemies because it's pretty difficult to like some people like isn't affectionate their quality and it's pretty difficult frankly to like some people i must frankly say that i don't like some of the things that are senator islan and senator thamon and senator stennis and senator rosad is hard to like but jesus says love them and love is greater than life love is understanding creative redemptive goodwill for all men and it can be a strong demanding love for in the process it demands justice and i believe that it is this kind of love it can take us through this period of transition and we can come to that brighter day this is what we've tried to do in the midst of our struggle we have always succeeded but somehow in some of the dark moments we have been able to stand up before our violent oppressors and say we will match your capacity to inflict suffering without capacity to endure suffering we will meet your physical force with soul force due to us what you will and we will still love you we cannot in all the conscience obey your unjust laws because non-cooperation with evil is as much a moral obligation as cooperation with good and so force and jail and we will still love you by my homes and threaten our children and it's difficult as it is we will still love you yes in your hooded perpetrators of violence into our communities at the midnight hours drag us out on some way side road and beat us and leave us half dead and as difficult as it is we will still love you but be assured that we will wear you down by our capacity to suffer and one day we will win our freedom but we will not only win freedom for ourselves we will so appeal to your heart and your conscience that we will win you in the process and our victory will be a double victory this is what the non-violent discipline says in the final analysis and i believe that it can lead us out of this dark night into a new and noble day and help every one of us go into the new age which is emerging fully awake and help us to go into the new age which is emerging with the right attitude whether we are quite whether we are black we will go in with understanding good will we happen to have been on the oppressed end of the old order we will not go in to pay those back who have oppressors we will go in with larger levels of forgiveness we will not seek to substitute one tyranny for another we will know that a doctrine of black supremacy is as dangerous as a doctrine of white supremacy in the final analysis god is not interested million the freedom of black men and brown men and yellow men but god is interested in the freedom of the whole human race and the creation of a society where all men will live together as brothers and every man will respect the dignity and the worth of human personality and so the challenge ahead is to move out with a strong action program undergirded by philosophy and method of non-violence if we will do this yes we will be a part of that creative movement remaining awake through a great revolution if we had to solve this problem really we must continue to have a sort of divine discontent there are certain technical words within every academic discipline that soon become stereotypes and cliches every academic discipline has its technical nomenclation modern psychology has a word that is probably used more than any other word in psychology it is a word maladjusted this word is a ring in pride of modern child psychology and suddenly we want to live a well-adjusted life in order to avoid neurotic and schizophrenic personalities but i would like to say to you this evening my friends there are some things within our nation and within the world which i'm proud to be maladjusted which i call upon all men of good will to be maladjusted until the good society is realized i must honestly say to you that i never intend to become adjusted to racial segregation and discrimination i never intend to adjust myself to religious bigotry i never intend to become adjusted to economic conditions that will take necessities from the minute to give luxuries to the few i never intend to become adjusted to the madness of militarism and the self-defeating effects of physical violence for dinner day when sputniks and explorers are dashing throughout a space and guided ballistic missiles are carving highways of death through the stratosphere no nation can win a war it is no longer the choice between violence and non-violence it is either non-violence or non-existence and the alternative to disarmament the alternative to a greater suspension of nuclear tests the alternative to strengthening the united nations and thereby disarming the whole world may well be a civilization plunged into the abyss of annihilation and so i say to you that is need for a little maladjustment may well be that we need a new organization in our world the international association for the advancement of creative maladjustment men and women men and women who will be as maladjusted as a prophet amos who in the midst of the injustices of his day the crowd in words that echo across the centuries led justice rolled down like waters and righteousness like a mighty stream as maladjusted as abraham lincoln who had the vision to see the this nation could not survive half slave and half free as maladjusted as thomas jefferson who in the midst of an age amazingly adjusted to slavery but scratch across the pages of history words lifted to cosmic proportions we all these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal that they are endowed by that creator with certain alienable rights and that among these a life liberty and pursuit of happiness as maladjusted as our lord and our master would say to the men women around galilee he who lives by the sword will perish by the sword who could look into their eyes and say love your enemies bless them that curse you pray for them that despitefully use you through such maladjustment we will be able to emerge from the bleak and desolate midnight of man's and humanity to man and to the bright and glitter and daybreak of freedom and justice and so i call upon you tonight not to be spectators on the sideline not to be individuals who are looking on but to be involved participants in this great struggle to make our nation a greater nation and end all of the evils of racial injustice poverty the evil of war if we will all be involved participants we will be able to speed up that day i must admit to you that they're not always pleasant moments when you stand up in this struggle i must be honest enough to say to you if you stand up in this struggle may mean that you will have to suffer for righteousness sake may mean that somebody would be called bad names and would be misunderstood merely because they're standing up it may mean losing a job it may mean somehow facing all of the agonies and all of the frustrations of our days may mean that somebody will have to face physical death like medgev is faced in the civil rights workers in mississippi this summer physical death is a price that some must pay to feed free that children and their white brothers from a permanent psychological death and a permanent death of the spirit then nothing can be more redemptive the thing that must always console us as that as we struggle we do not struggle alone that is something in our christian faith to remind us of this god that we worship is not some aristotelian unmoved mover who merely contemplates upon himself he's not merely a self-knowing god but he's another loving god working through history for the salvation of his children and that is an event at the center of our faith which reminds us a good friday may occupy the throne for a day but ultimately it must give way to the triumph and beat of the drums of eastern that is something in our faith which reminds us that evil may so shape events that caesar will occupy the palace and christ across but one day that same christ will rise up and split history into ad and bc so that even the life of caesar must be dated by his name that is something in this universe which justifies carlisle and saying no lie can live forever that is something in this universe which justifies william colbert bryant in saying truth christ earth will rise again that is something in the very structure of the cosmos which justifies james russell lowell in saying truth fair bond the scaffold wrong fair bond the throne yet that scaffold sways the future behind the demon known standeth god within the shadow keeping watch above his own this is our faith and this is what will carry us through we have a little song that we sang in the movement many of you know it it has become the theme song of our movement and i still believe in it and i can still sing it we shall overcome we shall overcome deep in my heart i do believe we shall overcome and that is another stands of the lord will see us through the lord will see us through deep in my heart i do believe and with this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of the spatter stone of hope with this faith we will be able to somehow speed up the day and every valley shall be exalted never mounting and hew will be made low rough place will be made plain in the crooked places straight the glory of the lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together with this faith we will be able to speed up the day when all of god's children black men and white men jews and gentiles protestants and catholics will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old negro spiritual free at last free at last thank god almighty we are free at last thank you