Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I need not pause to say how heard the light of  the light to be here tonight, and how very good light that I am to see you expressing your  concern about the issues that will be discussed tonight by turning out in such a large number.  I also want to say that I consider it a great honor to share this program with Dr. Bennett, Dr.  Warren's experience to come through this great church and this great program. I come to this magnificent house of worship  tonight because my conscience leaves me no other choice. I've shown you in this meeting because I'm in deepest  agreement with the aims and work of the organization which has brought us together, clergy and laymen concerned  about Vietnam. The recent statements of your executive committee of the sentiments of my own heart  die found myself in full accord. When I read this opening line, a time comes when silence is detrained,  that time has come for us in relation to Vietnam. The truth of these words is beyond doubt  but the mission to which they call us is the most difficult one, even when pressed by the demands of inner truth.  Men do not easily assume the task of proposing that government's policy, especially in time of war.  Narva's human spirit moved without great difficulty, again saw the apathy of conformist thought within one's own wisdom and in the surrounding world.  More open issues at hand seem as perplexing as they often do. In the case of this dreadful conflict,  we are always on the verge of being mesmerized by uncertainty, but we must move on. Some of us who have already begun to break the silence of the night have found  that the calling to speak is often a vocation of agony, but we must speak. We must speak with all the humility that is appropriate to our limited vision, but we must speak.  We must rejoice as well for sure that this is the first time in our nation's history.  That is, significant number of its religious leaders have chosen to move beyond the prophesy of smooth patriotism to the high grounds of the fern descent based upon the mandates of conscience and the reading of history.  Perhaps a new spirit is rising among us. If it is, let us praise its movement and pray that our own inner being may be sensitive to its guidance, but we are deeply in need of a new way beyond the darkness that seems so close around.  Over the past few years, as I have moved to break the trail of my own insolences and to speak from the burning of my own heart, as I have called for radical departures from the destruction of Vietnam.  Many questions have frustrating me about the wisdom of my pet. At the heart of that concerns is where it has often loomed in large and large, while you are speaking about the world of the king, while you are joining the forces of descent.  Teasing the civil rights don't mix, they say. Aren't you hurting the cause of your people, they ask. And with when I hear them, though I often understand the source of their concern, I am nevertheless greatly sad.  The such questions mean that the empires have not really known my commitment or my fault. Indeed, bad questions suggest that they do not know the world in which they live.  In the life of such tragic misunderstanding, I deem it of signal importance to try to stay clear, and I trust concisely, while I believe that the pad from next avenue back to church, the church in Montgomery, out of ammo, where I began my pastor, leads clearly to this sanctuary tonight.  I come to this platform tonight to make the passion of plea to my beloved nation. This speech is not addressed to Hanoi or to the national liberation front. It is not addressed to China or to Russia.  Now is it an attempt to overlook the ambiguity of the total situation and the need for a collective solution to the tragedy of Vietnam?  Neither is it an attempt to make not be a norm of the national liberation front. Paragon was a first.  Now to overlook the role they must play in the successful resolution of the Trump, while they both may have justifiable reasons to be suspicious of the good faith of the United States.  Life and history give an eloquent testimony to the fact that conflicts are never resolved without trust will give and take on both sides.  Tonight, however, I wish not to speak with Hanoi and the national liberation front, but rub up to my fellow Americans.  Since I am a creature by calling, I suppose it is not surprising that I have seven major reasons for bringing Vietnam into the field of my moral vision.  That is about a very obvious and almost faceless dimension between the war in Vietnam and the struggle I and others have been waiting in America.  A few years ago, there was a shining moment in that struggle. It seemed as if there was a real promise of hope for the poor, hope black and white through the poverty program.  There were experiments, hopes, new beginnings, then came the build up in Vietnam.  I watched this program broken and deteriorated, as if it was some idle and political plating of a society gone mad on war.  I knew that America would never invest. The necessary funds are images in rehabilitation of its poor, so long as inventions like Vietnam continue to draw men and steals and money, like some the money destructive suction to.  So I was increasingly compelled to see the war as an enemy of the poor and to a pact with his such. Perhaps a more tragic recognition of reality took place, and it became clear to me that the war was doing far more than devastating the hopes of the poor at home.  It was sending their sons and their brothers and their husbands to fight and to die in extraordinarily high proportions relative to the rest of the population.  We were taking the black young men, who had been crippled by our society and sending them 8,000 miles away, to guarantee liberties in South East Asia, which they had not found in South West Georgia at East Harlem.  So we had been repeated the face with a cruel arm, watching me growing white boys on eb screens, and they killed and died a devil for a nation that has been unable to seek them together in the same schools.  So we watched them in brutal solidarity, burning the huts of the poor, but we realized that they would hardly live on the same block in Chicago. I cannot be silent in the face of such cruel manipulation of the poor.  My third reason moves to an even deeper level of awareness before it grows out of my experience in the ghettos of the North over the last three years, especially in the last three summers.  As I have walked among the desert, rejected and angry young men, I have told them that Mollettop cocktails and rifles would not solve that problem.  I have tried to offer them my deepest compassion while maintaining my conviction that social change comes most meaningfully through non-violent action.  But they asked and rightly so, what about Vietnam? They asked about our own nation, wasn't using massive doses of violence to solve its problem, bring about the changes it wanted.  That question hit home, and I knew that I could never again raise my voice against the violence of the oppressed in the ghettos, without having first spoken clearly to the greatest particular violence in the world today, my own government, for the sake of those boys, for the sake of this government, for the sake of the hundreds of thousands trembling under our violence,  I cannot be solved. For those who asked the question of your civil rights media, thereby I mean to exclude me from the movement of peace.  I have this further answer. In 1957, when a group of us formed the Southern Christian leadership conference, we chose to our motto to save the soul of America.  We were convinced that we could not limit our vision to certain rights for black people, but instead of trying to conviction that America would never be free of saving it from itself, until the descendants of its slaves will lose completely from the shackles they steal away.  In a way we were agreeing with Langston Hughes, that black bar of column, who had written earlier, oh yes, I say it plain, America never was America for me, yet I swear this hope, America will be.  Now it should be incandescently clear that no one who has any concern for the integrity and light of America today can ignore the present war.  If America's soul becomes totally positive, part of the autopsy must read Vietnam. It can never be saved so long as it destroys these hopes of men, the world, open.  So it is that those of us who are yet to come and that America will be allowed, are led down the path of protest and dissent, working for the health of our land.  As if the way to such a commitment through the light and health of America were not enough, another burden of responsibility was placed upon me in 1954.  And I can not forget that the Nobel Peace Prize was all for a commission.  A commission to work harder than I had ever worked before for the brotherhood of men.  This is a calling that takes me beyond national allegiance, but even if it were not present, I would yet have to live with the meaning of my commitment to the ministry of Jesus Christ.  For me, the relationship of this ministry through the making of peace is so obvious that I sometimes marvel at those who ask me why I'm speaking against the war.  Could it be that they do not know that the good news was meant for all men for communism capitalists, for that children of ours, for black and for white, for revolutionary and conservative.  And they have forgotten that my ministry is an obedience to the one who loved his enemies so fully that he died for them.  What then can I say to the beard come of the castle of tomorrow as a faithful minister of this one, and I threatened them with death.  I must I not share with them my life. Finally, as I tried to explain to you and for myself the role that needs from my government through this place.  I would have offered all that was most valid. If I simply said that I must be true to my conviction, that I share with all men the calling to be a son of the living God.  Young, the calling of race and nation of great is this vocation of sonship and brotherhood because I believe that the father is deeply concerned, especially for his suffering and helpless and outcast children.  I come tonight to speak for them. This I believe is the privilege and the burden of all of us who came ourselves bound by allegiances and lawyers which are broader and deeper than nationalism and which go beyond our nation's self defined goals and positions.  We are called to speak for the weak, for the falseness, for the victims of our nation, for those who cause enemy, for no document from human hands can make these humans in and less our brother.  As I come to the madness of Vietnam, in such within myself a ways to understand and respond in compassion, my mind goes constantly through the people of that peninsula.  I speak now not of the soldiers of each side, not of the ideologies of the liberation from, not of the hunting inside God, but simply of the people who have been living under the curse of war for almost three continuous decades now.  I think of them too because in a square of a means there will be no meaningful solution. There until some of them to make and know them and hear that broken promise, they must see Americans as strange liberators.  They must make people proclaim their own independence in 1954 as in 1945 rather after a combined French and Japanese occupation and before the communist revolution in China.  Even though they quoted the American Declaration of Independence in our own adoption in Japan, we refused to recognize them and said we decided to support France in its reconquest of a form of problem.  Our government felt that the Vietnamese people were not ready for independence. We again fell victim to the deadly Western hours that has caused the international atmosphere to so long.  As that tragic decision we rejected a revolutionary government seeking self-determination and a government that had been established not by China, the whom the Vietnamese have no good love, but by clearly indigenous forces that included some context.  For the peasants, this new government meant real land recombinant for the most important niche in their lives.  Nine years following 1945, we denied the people of Vietnam to the right of independence. For nine years we vigorously supported the French and that aborted effort to recolonize Vietnam.  Before the end of the war, we were mediated for cent of the French War Corps. Even before the French were defeated at the end of the war, they began to dispel their recklessness action, but we did not.  We encouraged them with our huge financial and military supplies to continue the war even after they had lost the war.  Soon we would become almost the full cause of this tragic attempt that we colonization. After the French were defeated, it looked as if independence and land recomb would come again through the Geneva Agreement.  Then stepped back in the United States, determined that force should not unify the temporarily divided nation. The peasants watched again as we supported one of the most vicious modern dictators.  Our chosen man premiered the end. The peasants watched and cremced as the end, rootless of it, rooted out all opposition, put it there, discussions, landlords and refuse even to discuss reunification with the North.  Peasants watched as all of this was presided over by the United States Entrons, then by increasing numbers of United States troops who came to help quail the insurgency that DM's methods had aroused.  DM was overthrown, they may have been happy, but the long line of military dictators seemed to offer no real change, especially in terms of their need for land and peace.  The only change came from America as we increased our true commitment and support of governments which were singularly corrupt and without popular support.  All the while the people read our lyrics and received the regular promises of peace and democracy and land reform.  Now they languish under our bones and consider us not that fellow being the least the real king.  They move sadly and hypothetically as we heard them off the land of their fathers in the concentration camps where minimal social needs were rallied in that, they must move on and be destroyed by all of us.  So they go primary and women in children of age, they watch as we porcelain their water, as we kill a million acres of their crops.  They must weak as the bulldozers roar through their areas, comparing to destroy the precious trees, they wonder into the hospitals with at least 20 casualties from American top power for one being found inflicted into.  So far we may have killed a million of them, mostly children, they wonder into the pounds and see thousands of the children homeless without clothes running in packs on the streets like animals.  They see the children degraded by our soldiers as they beg for food, they see the children selling their sisters to our soldiers, soliciting for their mothers.  What does the petitions think as we allow ourselves with the landlords and as we refuse to put any action into our many words concerning land reform?  What do they think as we test out our latest weapons on them, just as the Germans tested out new medicine and new tortures in the concentration camps of Europe, where are the roots of independent Vietnam and claim to be built?  Is it among these porcelain ones, we have destroyed that two most cherished institutions, the family and the village, we have destroyed that land and that crops, we have cooperated in the crushing in the crushing of the nation's only non-communist revolutionary political force, the unified Buddhist Church.  We have supported the entities of the peasants of Saigon, we have corrupted our women, children, and killed their men.  Now that is little left to build on St. Petersburg, soon the only solid, solid physical foundation remaining will be found at our military bases and in the concrete of the concentration camps we call fortified handlers.  The peasants may well wonder if we plan to build our new Vietnam on such grounds as these.  If we blame them for such thoughts, we must speak for them and raise the questions they cannot raise these two are brothers.  Perhaps more difficult but no less necessary task is to speak for those who have been designated as our enemies.  What are the national liberation from? That strange, the anonymous group we call V.C. of Cummins.  What must they think of the United States of America? They realize we committed the repression and drove to the end which helped to bring them into being as a resistance group in the South.  What do they think of our condoning the violence which led to battle and taking up the bombs? How can they believe in our integrity when now we speak of aggression from the North?  As if there were nothing more essential to the war? How can they trust us?  Now we charge them with violence after the murderous reign again. Charge them with violence while we pour up every new weapon of death into their land.  Surely we must understand that feelings. Even if we do not condone that actions, surely we must see that the men we supported pressed them to that violence.  Surely we must see that our own computerized plans and destruction simply dwarf bad greatest acts.  How they judge us when our officials know that their membership is less than 25% Cummins and yet insist on giving them the blanket name.  What must they be thinking when they know that we are aware of that control of major sections of Vietnam and yet we appear ready to allow national elections in which this hearted organized political parallel government will not have a heart?  They ask how we can speak of free elections when the side on press is censored and controlled by the military.  And they are surely right to wonder what kind of new government we plan to help farm without them.  The only part is in real touch with the peasants. They question our political goals and they deny the reality of a peace settlement from which they will be excluded.  That question is frighteningly relevant. Is our nation planning to build on political myth again?  Then show it up from the power of new bombs. Here is a true meaning and value of compassion and non-bombs.  When it helps us to see they end in this form of you to hear its questions, to know his assessment about ourselves,  from his view, we may indeed see the basic weaknesses of our own conditions if we are matured.  We may land growing profit from the wisdom of the brothers who are called the opposition, so too with annoyed.  In the north where our bombs now come over land and our minds endanger the waterways, we are led by a deep but understandable mistrust to speak for them as to explain this life of confidence in Western words.  And especially that mistrust of American intentions now in an order of a man who had the nation to independence against Japanese and the French.  The man who sought membership in the French Commonwealth and were betrayed by the weakness and power and the willfulness of the colonial arms.  It was they who led a second struggle against French domination at tremendous cost.  Then what persuaded to give up the land they controlled between the 13th and 17th parallel as a temporary measure at Tunisia.  After 1954 they watched us inspire a DM to prevent elections which could have still had brought hold to men power over a united Vietnam.  They realized they had been betrayed again and we asked why they do not lead to negotiate. These things must be remembered.  Also it must be clear that the leaders of Hamar considered the presence of American troops in support of the DM regime to have been the initial military breach of the Geneva agreement concerning power of troops.  They remind us that they did not begin to send troops in large numbers and even supply to the South until American forces had moved into the kings of China.  Nor remembers how leaders refused to tell us the truth about the earlier not being the least overturals to peace.  How the president claimed that none existed when they had clearly been made.  Forging men has watched as America has spoken of peace and mission of the forces.  Now he has surely heard the increasing international rumors of American plans for an invasion of the North.  He knows the bombing and shelling and mining we are doing a part of traditional pre-invasion strategy.  Perhaps only his sense of humor and of irony can save him when he hears the most powerful nation of the world speaking of aggression as it drops thousands of bombs  On a core weak nation more than 800,000 every 8,000 miles away from its shoulders.  At this point I should make it clear that while I have tried these last minutes to give a voice to the bossless and beard man  to understand the arguments of those who are called in any, I am as deeply concerned about our own shouldn't there is anything else.  Or it occurs to me that what we are submitting them to in Vietnam is not simply the brutalizing process that goes on in any war  where arms face each other and seek to destroy.  We are adding cynicism to the process of death.  But they must know after the short period there that none of the things we claim to be fighting for are really involved.  For a long they must know that their government has sent them into a struggle against enemies.  The more sophisticated surely relies and we are on the side of the wealthy and the secure while we create a hill for the poor.  Somehow this madness must cease.  We must stop now.  I speak as a child of God and brother to the suffering poor of Vietnam.  I speak for those whose land is being laid waste, whose homes are being destroyed, whose coach of his being suffered.  I speak for the poor of America, who are paying the double price of smash-coats at home, dealt death and corruption in Vietnam.  I speak as a citizen of the world.  For the world is that stands against at the path we have taken.  I speak as one who loves America to the leaders of our own nation.  The great initiative in this war is ours.  The initiative to stop it must be ours.  This is a message of the great Buddhist leaders of Vietnam.  Recently one of them wrote these words and I quote,  each day the war goes on, the hatred increases, and the hard to be in the meats, and the hearts of those of humanitarian instinct.  The Americans are forcing even their friends into becoming vans.  It is curious that the Americans who calculate so happily on the possibilities of military victory do not realize that in the process  they incurred each psychological and political defeat.  The image of America will never again be the image of revolution, freedom and democracy.  But the image of violence and militarism, unquote, we continue that will be no doubt in my mind, and in the mind of the world  and we have no honorable intentions in the Vietnam.  We do not stop our war against the people of Vietnam immediately.  The world will be left with no other alternative than to see this as some horrible, clumsy and deadly game we have decided to play.  The world now demands a tyrically of America that we may not be able to achieve.  It demands that we admit that we have been wrong from the beginning of our invention of Vietnam, that we have been detrimental to the life of the Vietnamese people,  the situation is one in which we must be ready to turn sharply from our present weight in order to atone for our sins.  And ever since Vietnam, we should take the initiative in bringing a hold to this tragic war.  I would like to suggest five hundred feet things that our government should do immediately to begin the long and difficult process of it,  executing ourselves from this nightmare that comes in.  Number one and all bombing in North and South Vietnam.  Number two, the clavvy unit in a lateral cease fire in the hope that such action will create atmosphere from negotiation.  Three, take immediate steps to prevent other battlegrounds in Southeast Asia.  Number two, the clavvy unit in a lateral cease fire in the hope that such action will create atmosphere from negotiation.  Number two, the clavvy unit in a lateral cease fire in the hope that such action will create atmosphere from negotiation.  And many while we in the churches and synagogue have a continuing pass while we urge our government to disengage itself from this graceful commitment,  we must continue to raise our voices and our lines if our nation persists in its diverse ways in Vietnam.  We must be prepared to act actions with words by seeking out every created method of protest possible.  As we counsel young men concerning military service, we must clarify for them our nation's role in Vietnam and challenge them with the alternative of conscientious objection.  I am pleased to say that this has appeared now chosen by more than 70 students at Mount Al-Mumatoma College.  And I recommend it to all who find the American course in Vietnam and dishonorable and unjustly.  Moreover, I would encourage all ministers of draft aid to give up that ministerial exemptions and six status as conscientious objectors.  These are the times for real choices and not false ones.  We are at the moment when our lives must be placed on the line if our nation is to survive its own fault.  Every man of humane convictions must decide on the protest that best suits his convictions, but we must all protest.  And that is something subjectively tempting about stopping them and sending us all off on what in some circles has become a popular crusade against the war in Vietnam.  I say we must enter that struggle, but I wish to go on now to say something even more disturbing.  The war in Vietnam is but a symptom of a far deeper malady within the American spirit.  We ignore this so many of us.  And if we ignore this sobering reality, we will find ourselves organized and clergy and layman concerned for millions for the next generation.  They will be concerned about Guatemala and Peru. They will be concerned about Thailand and Cambodia.  They will be concerned about Mozambique and South Africa.  We will be marching for these and a dozen other names and attending rallies without any unless that is a significant and profound change in American life and policy.  So such thoughts take us beyond Vietnam, but not beyond our calling.  As sons of the living God in 1957, a sensitive American official overseas said that it seemed to him that our nation was on the wrong side of the world revolution.  During the past 10 years, we have seen the emerging pattern of suppression, which has now justified the presence of US military advisers and Venezuelans.  This need to maintain social stability for our investment, accounts for the counter-revolutionary action of American forces in Guatemala.  To tell us why American helicopters have been used against the religion of Cambodia, why American waveform and green beret forces have already been active against rebels in Peru.  It is with such activity in mind that the words of the late John F. Kennedy come back to Congress five years ago, you say, those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.  Increasingly by choice or by accident, this is the role our nation has taken, the role of those who make peaceful revolution impossible.  By reducing to give up the privilege and the pleasures that come from the immense trouble of overseas investment, I am convinced that if we are to get on the right side of the world revolution, we as a nation must undergo a radical revolution of battle.  We must rapidly begin the shift from a thing or in its society to a person or in its society when machines and consumers, pocket motives and property rights are considered more important than people.  The giant triplets of racism, extreme materialism and militarism are incapable of being common.  A true revolution of values will soon cause us to question the fairness and justice of many of our past and present policies.  On the one hand we are called to play the good Samaritan on light roadside. That would be only an initial act. One day we must come to see that the whole Jericho road must be transformed so that men and women will not be constantly beaten and robbed as they make that journey on light highway.  True compassion is more than flaming a coin through a banner. It comes to see that an edifice which produces beggars needs restructure.  True revolution of values will soon look uneasy on the glaring contrast of poverty and wealth with the right as a nation.  It will look across the scenes and see individual capitalists of the West, investing huge sums of money in Asia, Africa and South America, only to take the profits out with no concern for the social betterment of the countries and say this is not just.  It will look at our alliance with the land of gentry of South America and say this is not just Western Arabs are feeling that it has everything to teach others and nothing to learn from them is not just true revolution of values will lay hand on the world order and say of war.  This way of settling differences is not just this business of burning human beings would lay on feeling our nation's homes with orphans and widows of injecting poisonous drugs of hate into the veins of people's normally human sending men home from dark and bloody battlefields physical and handicapped and psychological of the rain cannot be reconciled with wisdom justice.  The nation that continues here at the year spend more money on military defense and on programs of social uplift is a protein spiritual debt.  The richest and most powerful nation in the world and well lead the way in this revolution event that has nothing except the tragic death wish to prevent us from reordering our priorities so that the pursuit of peace will take precedence over the pursuit of war.  There is nothing to keep us from molding the recalcitrant status quo with bruised hands until we have fashioned it into a brotherhood.  This kind of positive revolution of that is our best defense against communism.  Communism will never be defeated by the use of atomic bombs of nuclear weapons. Let us not join those who shout war on through badness, guided passions, urge the United States to relinquish its participation in the United Nations.  These are days which demand wise restraint and calm reasonableness. We must not engage in a negative anti-communism but rather in a positive thrust for democracy.  Realizing that our greatest defense against communism is to take offensive action in behalf of justice. We must with positive action seek to remove those conditions of poverty and security and justice which are the fertile soil in which the seed of communism grows and develops.  These are revolutionary times, all over the globe, men are revolting against old systems of exploitation and oppression.  Out of the wounds of the frail world, new systems of justice and equality are being born.  The shirtless and bad for people of the land, arising up as never before, people who set in darkness have seen a great life. We and the West must support these revolutions.  It is a sad fact that because of comfort, complacency, a morbid fear of communism, our promise to adjust to injustice, the Western nations that initiated so much of the revolutionary spirit of the modern world have now become the arts anti-revolutionaries.  This has driven the minute to feel that only Marxism has a revolutionary spirit. Therefore communism is a judgment against our failure to make democracy real and follow through on the revolutions that we initiate.  I want to hope today lies in our ability to recapture the revolutionary spirit and go out into the sometimes hostile world, declaring eternal hostility, the public erasism and militarism.  This powerful commitment, we shall hold the challenge of status quo and unjust law rules.  Thereby, sweet today, whenever values shall be assaulted and every mountain in heels shall be made law, crooked shall be made straight and the rough place is plain, genuine revenue to the values means in the final analysis, that our lawyers must become ecumenical rubberman sectional.  Every religion must now develop an overriding lawyer to mankind as a whole in order to preserve the best in their individual societies.  This called for a well worldwide fellowship that lists neighborly concern beyond one's tried race class in nation is in reality a call upon all embracing embracing an unconditional love for mankind.  This off misunderstood. This off misinterpreted concept so readily dismissed by the niches of the world as a weak and cowardly force has now become an absolute necessity for the survival of man.  When I speak of love, I'm not speaking of some sentimental and weak response. I'm not speaking of that force which is just in lortional bars.  I'm speaking of that force which all of the great religions have seen as the supreme unifying principle of life, love is somehow the key that unlocks the door which leads to ultimate reality.  This Hindu Muslim Christian Jewish Buddhist belief about ultimate reality is beautiful as some left in the first epistle of Saint John, let us love one another.  Yes.  Love is God.  Yes.  And everyone that loves is born of God and know of God, either love is not God or God is love.  If we love one another, God dwelleth in us and his love is perfected in us, let us hope that this spirit will become daughter of the day.  We can no longer afford to worship the God of hate.  Now before the altered of retaliation, the oceans of history are made turbulent by the ever rising tide of hate.  History is cluttered with the recognition of an individual that pursues this self-defeating path of hate.  As Donald Conda says, love is the ultimate force that makes for the saving choice of light and good against the damning choice of Japanese.  Therefore the first hope in our inventory must be the hope that love is going to have the last word unfold.  We are now faced with the fact my friends that tomorrow is today.  We are confronted with the fierce urgency of now in this unfolding conundrum of life and history.  That is such a thing as being too late.  The procrastination is still the feet of time.  Life of the leaves are standing bare, naked and detected with the lost opportunity.  The tide in the fast and men does not remain at the Florida air base.  We may grab desperate different time to cause in her passage.  The time is adamant to ever see and rushes on over the bleached zones and jumbo residues of numerous civilizations,  ridden with the pathetic words too late.  That is an invisible book of light.  The faith that it records our vigilance or our neglect, or Marquayam is right to move and finger rights and have been ripped loose on.  We still have a choice today.  Non-violent coexistence, a violent coroneration.  We must move past indecision direction.  We must find new ways to speak for peace and be a non-man justice throughout the developing world.  A world that borders on our doors.  We do not act.  We shall surely be dragged down the long dark and shameful corridors of time.  Reserve for those who possess power without compassion.  Mike, without morality and strength without sight, now let us begin.  Now let us re-dedicate ourselves to the long and bitter,  but beautiful struggle for a new world.  This is the calling of the sons of God.  And our brothers wait eagerly for our response.  So we say the heart is too great.  So we tell them the struggle is too hard.  The line message be that the forces of America and the life,  the name shall arrive on its core, then.  We send our deepest regrets.  Will there be another message, a long hope, a solidarity with their gents,  a commitment to that cause, whatever the cause, the choice is ours.  Though we might prefer to wise, we must choose and choose a moment of history.  Is that noble part of yesterday James Russell, Lord Elephant, missing?  Once to every man in nation, comes a moment to decide,  in the strife of truth and falsehood, for the good evil sign,  some great cause, God's new desire, offerings to groom a plight,  and the choice goes by forever, twigs that darkness and that light,  though the cause of evil prosper.  Yet this truth alone is strong, though of course it will be the scaffold,  and upon the throne be wrong, yet that scaffold sways the future,  behind the them unknown standard God within the shadow,  keeping watch above his own.  If we will only make the right choice, we will be able to transform  this pending cosmology into a creative form of peace.  We will make the right choice.  We will be able to transform the jangling discourse of our world,  into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood.  We will but make the right choice.  We will be able to speed up the day all over the America and all over the world  when justice will roll down like walls and righteousness like a mighty street.