I want to use as a subject from which to preach this morning a very committed subject, and it is  committed to you because I have preached from the subject twice before to my knowing and  this quote. I try to make it a something of a custom or tradition to preach from this passage  of Scripture, at least once a year, adding new insights that I develop a long way out  of new experiences as I give these messages. Although the content is the basic content is the same,  new insights and new experiences naturally make for new illustrations. So I want to turn your attention  to this subject, loving your enemies. It's so basic to me because it is a part of my basic philosophical and theological orientation,  the whole idea of love, the whole philosophy of love. In the fifth chapter of the gospel,  as recorded by St. Matthew, we read these very arresting words flowing from the lips of our Lord and Master.  You have heard that it has been said, thou shall love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies,  bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hinder you and pray for them that despitefully use you,  that we may be the children of your father, which is in heaven.  Certain of these great words were lifted to cosmic proportions.  Know what the sin is. Many persons have argued that this is an extremely difficult command.  Many would go so far as to say that it just isn't possible to move out into the actual practice of this glorious command.  They would go on to say that this is just additional proof that Jesus was an impractical idealist who never quite came down to earth.  So the argument's bound. But far from being an impractical idealist, Jesus has become the practical ribs.  The words of this text litter in our eyes with a new urgency.  Far from being the pious injunction of a utopian treatment, this command is an absolute necessity for the survival of our civilization.  Yes, it is love that will save our world and our civilization love even for enemies.  Now let me hasten to say that Jesus was very serious when he gave this command. He wasn't playing.  He realized that it's hard to love your enemies. He realized that it's difficult to love those persons who seek to defeat your those persons who say evil things about you.  He realized that it was painfully hard, pressingly hard, but he wasn't playing.  And we cannot dismiss this as just another example of oriental hyperpoly, just sort of exaggeration to get over the point.  This is a basic philosophy of all that we hear coming from the lips of our master because Jesus wasn't playing because he was serious.  We have the Christian and moral responsibility to seek to discover the meaning of these words and to discover how we can live out this command and why we should live by this command.  Now first let us deal with this question, which is a practical question, how do you go about loving your enemies?  I think the first thing is this, in order to love your enemies you must begin by analyzing self.  Now I'm sure that seems strange to you that I start out telling you this morning that you love your enemies by beginning with a look itself.  It seems to me that that is the first and foremost way to come to an adequate discoverer to the how this situation.  Now I'm aware of the fact that some people will not like you, not because of something you have done to them, but just they just won't like you.  I'm quite aware of that. Some people aren't going to like the way you walk. Some people aren't going to like the way you talk.  Some people aren't going to like you because you can do your job better than they can do there. Some people aren't going to like you because of the people liking because you're popular and because you're well-liked.  Some people aren't going to like you because your hair is a little shorter than theirs or your hair is a little longer than theirs.  Some people aren't going to like it because the skin is a little brighter than theirs. Some people aren't going to like you because your skin is a little darker than theirs.  So that some people aren't going to like you there. They're going to dislike you not because of something that you've done to them, but because of various jealous reactions and other reactions that are so prevalent in human nature.  But after looking at these things and admitting these things, we must face the fact that an individual might dislike us because of something that we've done deep down in the past,  some personality attribute that we possess, something that we've done deep down in the past and we've forgotten about it, but it was that something that around the hate responds within the individual.  That is why I say begin with your shock. It might be something within you that arouses a tragic hate response in the other individual.  This is true in our international struggle. We look at the struggle, the ideological struggle between communism on the one hand and democracy on the other.  We see the struggle between America and Russia. Now, suddenly we can never give out allegiance to the Russian way of life, to the communist way of life because communism is based on an ethical relativism and a metaphysical materialism that no Christian can expect.  When we look at the methods of communism, a philosophy, where somehow the end justifies the main, we cannot accept that because we believe this Christian vested in this creed, twisted into me,  but in spite of all of the weaknesses and evils inherent in communism, we must at the same time see the weaknesses and evils within democracy.  Democracy is the greatest form of government to my mind and man is ever conceived, but the weakness is that we have never practiced it.  Isn't it true that we have often taken necessities from the masses to give luxurious to the classes? Isn't it true that we have often, in our democracy,  that we have with the champal over individuals and racists with our own feet of oppression, isn't it true that through our Western powers we have perpetuated colonialism and imperialism,  and all of these things must be taken under consideration as we look at Russia.  We must face the fact that the rhythmic beat of the deep rumblings of discontent from Asia to Africa.  Is it bottom a revolt against the imperialism and colonialism perpetuated by Western civilization all these many years?  The success of communism in the world today is due to the failure of democracy to live up to the noble ideals and principles inherited in its system.  This is what Jesus means when He said, how is it that you can see the moat in your brother's eye and not see the beam in your own eye,  or to put it in more translation, how is it that you see the splitter in your brother's eye and fail to see the plank in your own eye?  This is one of the tragedies of human nature.  So we began to love our enemies and love those persons that hate us whether in collective life or individual life, by looking at ourselves.  A second thing that an individual must do and seeking to love his enemy is to discover the elements of truth in his enemy.  And every time you begin to hate that person and think of hating that person, realize that that is some good thing.  Look at those good points which will overbalance the bad points.  I said to you on many occasions that each of us is something of a schizophrenic personality.  We are split up and dividing against ourselves.  That is something of a civil war going on within all of our lives.  That is a recalcitrant south of our soul revolting against the north of our soul.  And that is this continual struggle within the rest of every individual life.  That is something within all of us that causes us to cry out with organ.  In the Latin port I see and approve the better things of life, but the evil things I do.  That is something within all of us that causes us to cry out with Plato, that the human personality is like a charate here with two headstrong horses, each wanting to go in a different direction.  That is something within each of us that causes us to cry out with greater.  That is enough stuff in me to make both the gentleman animals.  That is something within each of us that causes us to cry out with the apostle Paul.  I see and approve the better things of life, but the evil things I do.  So somehow the easiness of our present nature is out of harmony with the eternal alteness that we ever confront us.  And this simply means this.  That within the best of us there is some evil.  And within the worst of us there is some good.  When we come to see this we take a different attitude toward individuals.  The person who hates you most has some good in him.  Even the nation that hates you most has some good in it.  Even the race that hates you most has some good in it.  And when you come to the point that you look in the face of every man and see deep down within it what religion calls the image of God.  You begin to love him in spite of no matter what he does.  You see God's image there.  And that is an element of goodness that he can never slump off.  Discover the element of Googled in your enemy.  And as you seek to hate him find the center of goodness and place your attention there and you will take a new attitude.  Another way that you love your enemy is this.  When the opportunity presents itself for you to defeat your enemy that in the time which you must not defeat.  Now where from a time many instances when the person who hates you most,  the person who has misused you most, the person who has gossiped about you most,  the person who has spread false rumors about you most.  There will come a time when you will have an opportunity to defeat that person.  In my opinion terms of a recommendation for a job might be in terms of helping that person to make some move in life.  That is the meaning of love.  When you rise to the level of love of its great beauty and power, you seek only to defeat evil systems.  Individuals who have to be caught up in that system you love but you seek to defeat the system.  The Greek language is on set so often that more and more powerful of this form that comes to I.A. beautifully and giving us the real meaning and ejects of the whole collective love.  I think it is quite apt for this point.  The Greek language has three words for love.  Interestingly enough, it talks about love as air rocks.  That is one word for love.  Air rocks is a sort of aesthetic love.  Plato talks about it in a great deal in his dialogues, a sort of yearning of the soul for the realm of the gods.  This comes to us to be a sort of romantic love.  Though it's a beautiful love, everybody has experienced air rocks and all of this beauty when you find some individual that is attracted to you.  And that you pour out all of your life in your love of that individual, that is air-rociously and it's a powerful beautiful love that is given to us through all of the beauty of literature we read about it.  Then the Greek language talks about Suleer and that's another type of love.  It's also beautiful.  It is a sort of intimate affection between personal friends.  This is a type of love that you have for those persons that you are friendly with.  Your intimate friends are cheaper than you call on the telephone and you go about to have dinner with them.  Your roommate in college and that type of thing.  It's a sort of reciprocal love on this level.  You like a person because that person likes you.  You love on this level because you are loved. You love on this level because that's something about the person you love that is likeable to you.  This too is a beautiful love.  You can communicate with a person.  You have certain things in common who like to do things together.  This is Suleer. The Greek language comes out with another word for love.  It is a word of copy.  The copy is more than air-rocious, the copy is more than Suleer.  A copy is something of the understanding, creative, redemptive, good, we're grown in.  It is a love that seeks nothing in return.  It is an overflowing love that what theologians would call the love of God working in the lives of men.  When you rise to love on this level, you begin to love men not because they are likeable but because God loves them.  You look at every man and you love him because you know God loves him.  He might be the worst person you've ever seen.  This is what Jesus means.  I think in this very passage, when he says, love your enemy and it's significant that he does not say like your enemy.  Life is a sentimental something and affectionate something.  There are a lot of people that I find it difficult and like.  I don't like what they do to me.  I don't like what they say about me and other people.  I don't like the attitude.  I don't like some of the things they're doing.  I don't like them.  But Jesus says love them and love is greater than life.  Love is understanding, redemptive, good, we're grown in so that you love everybody because God loves them.  You refuse to do anything that will defeat an individual because you have a copy in your soul.  And here you come to the point that you love the individual who does with evil deeds while hating the deed that the person does.  This is what Jesus means.  He says love the enemy and this is the way to do it.  And the opportunity presents itself new to the future and you must not do it.  Now for a few moments let us move from the practice of how to the theoretical why.  Not on the necessary to know how to go about loving the enemies but also to go down into the question of why.  We should love our enemies.  I think the first reason that we should love our enemies and I think this is that the very center of Jesus thinking is this.  That hate for hate only intensifies the existence of hate and evil in the universe.  If I hit you and you hit me and I hit you back and you hit me back and go on you see that goes on at him from night and it's just never in.  Somewhere somebody must have a little sense and that's the strong person.  The strong person is the person who can cut off the chain of hate, the chain of evil.  That is the tragedy of hate that it doesn't cut it off.  It only intensifies the existence of hate and evil in the universe.  Somebody must have religion and nothing more relative enough to cut it off and inject within the very structure of the universe.  That's the strong power of the enemy to know.  I think I mentioned before that sometime ago my brother and I were driving one evening to Chattanova, Tennessee from Atlanta.  He was driving the car.  And for some reason the drivers were very discouraged that night.  They didn't dim their lights hardly in a driver's pass by dimming his lights.  And I remember that, this is my brother, he looked over and in the tone of anger said, I know what I'm going to do.  The next car that comes along here and refuses to dim the lights, I'm going to fail to dim mine in four-moon and all of that power.  And I looked at him right quick and say, who would know? Don't do that.  It's too much light on the highway.  It will end up in mutual destruction for all somebody that has been sent on the highway.  Somebody that has been sent out to dim the lights, that is the trouble isn't it?  It has all of the civilizations of the world who got the highway of history.  So many civilizations haven't looked at all the civilization that refused to dim the lights and they decided to refuse to dim theirs.  The tone that tells that out of the 22 civilizations that have risen up all but about seven have found themselves in the junky of destruction.  Here it is because civilizations failed to have since enough to dim the lights.  And if somebody that doesn't have since enough to turn on the dim and beautiful and powerful lights of love in this world,  the whole of our civilization will be plunged into the abyss of disruption.  And we will all end up destroyed because nobody had any sense on the highway of history.  Somewhere somebody that has been sent, men must see the force that gets forth, hate that gets hate, toughness that gets toughness.  And it is all a decent and spiral ultimately ending in destruction for all and everybody.  Somebody must have since enough and more gravity in them to cut off the chain of hate and the chain of evil in the universe and you do that by love.  That's another reason why you should love your enemies.  That is because hate distorts the personality of the hate.  We usually think of what hate does for the individuals hated or the individuals hated or the groups hated.  But it is even more tragic. It is even more rather than injurious to the individuals who hate.  You just began hating somebody and you will begin to do irrational things. You can't see straight when you hate.  You can't walk straight when you hate. You can't stand upright. Your vision is distorted.  That is nothing more tragic than to see an individual whose heart is still with hate.  He comes to the point that he becomes a pathological case.  For the person who hates, you can stand up and see a person and that person can be beautiful and you will call him ugly.  For the person who hates, the beautiful becomes ugly and ugly becomes beautiful.  For the person who hates, the good becomes bad and the bad becomes good.  For the person who hates, the true becomes false and the false becomes true.  That's what hate does. You can't see right. The student of objectivity is lost.  Hate destroys the very structure of the personality of the hate.  This is why Jesus says, hate.  This recording is briefly interrupted at this point.  If you want to be integrated with yourself and the way to be integrated with yourself,  it's be sure that you meet every situation of life within a pounding dog.  Never hate it.  Because it ends up in tragic, neurotic responses, psychologies and psychologists are telling us today that tomorrow we hate.  The more we develop guilt feelings and we begin to subconsciously repress or consciously suppress certain emotions  and they all stack up in our subconscious cells and make for tragic, neurotic responses.  And may this not be the neuroses of many individuals as they confront life that that is an element of hate there.  And modern psychologists calling us not to love.  And long before modern psychology came into being, the world's greatest psychologist who walked around the hills of Galilee told us to love,  he looked at men and said, love your enemies. Don't hate anybody.  Not enough just to hate your friends because, utter to love your friends, but because when you start hating anything,  it destroys the greatest center of your creative response to life and the universal love everybody.  Hate at any point is a cancer that melts away the greatest vital center of your life and your existence.  It is like eroding acid that eats away the best and the objective center of your life.  So Jesus says love because hate destroys the hate of them as well as the hate of them.  Now that is the final reason I think that Jesus says, love your enemies.  It is this that love has within it a redemptive power.  And that is a power that eventually transforms individuals.  That's why Jesus says love your enemies because if you hate your enemies you have no way to redeem and to transform your enemies.  But if you love your enemies, you will discover that at the very root of love is the power of redemption.  You just keep loving people and keep loving them even though they are mistreating you.  Here is a person who is unable and this person is doing something wrong to you and all of that.  Just keep being friendly to that person.  Keep loving them. Don't do anything to embarrass them.  Just keep loving them and they can't stand it too long.  Oh, they react in many ways in the beginning.  They react with bitterness because they are mad because you love them like that.  They react with guilt feelings and sometimes they will hate you a little more at that transition period but don't keep up.  And by the power of your love they will break down under the load.  That's love you see, it is redemptive.  This is why Jesus says love, that's something about love that builds up.  It is created that it is something about hate that has down and is destructive.  Love your enemies.  I think one of the best examples of this, we all remember the great president of this United States, Abraham Lincoln, this United States brother.  You remember when Abraham Lincoln was running for president of the United States?  That was a man who ran all around the country talking about Lincoln.  You said a lot of bad things about Lincoln, a lot of unkind things.  And sometimes he would get through the point that he would even talk about his look saying you don't want to tall like it and a man like this is the president of the United States.  He went on and on and on and went around with that type of attitude and wrote about it.  Finally one day Abraham Lincoln was elected president of the United States.  And if you read the great biography of Lincoln, if you read the great works about him, you will discover that as ever president comes to the point, he came to the part of heaven to choose a cabinet.  Then came the time for him to choose a secretary of war.  He looked across the nation and decided to choose a man by the name of Mr. Stanton.  When Abraham Lincoln stood around with the Bible and mentioned this fact, they said to him, Mr. Lincoln, are you a fool?  Do you know what Mr. Stanton has been saying about you?  Do you know what he has done tried to sue you? Do you know that he has tried to defeat you on Abraham? Do you know that Mr. Lincoln?  Did you read all of those derogatory statements that he made about you?  Abraham Lincoln stood before his advisors around him and said, oh yes, I know about it. I read about it. I've heard him myself.  After looking over the country, I find that he is the best man for the job.  Mr. Stanton did become secretary of war. A few months later, Abraham Lincoln was assassinated.  Did you go to Washington and you will discover that one of the greatest words or statements ever made about Abraham Lincoln?  He was made about this man, Stanton.  Abraham Lincoln came to the end of his life. Stanton stood up and said, now he belongs to the ages.  He made a beautiful statement concerning the character and the stature of this man.  If Abraham Lincoln had hated Stanton, if Abraham Lincoln had answered everything Stanton said,  Abraham Lincoln would have not transformed and redeemed Stanton. Stanton would have gone to his grave.  He didn't make and would have gone to his grave. He didn't stand on, but through the power of love.  Abraham Lincoln was able to redeemed Stanton. That is it.  That is a power in love that our world has not discovered yet.  Jesus discovered it centuries ago.  Mahatma Gandhi of India discovered it a few years ago, but most men and most women never discovered it.  They believe in hitting for hitting. They believe in an iron, a front iron, a 2-4-2.  They believe in hating for hating. But Jesus comes to us and says, this isn't the way.  Though this morning, as I think of the fact that our world is in transition now,  our whole world is facing a revolution. Our nation is facing a revolution. Our nation.  One of the things that concerns me most is that in the list of the revolution of the world  and the midst of the revolution of this nation, that we will discover the meaning of Jesus' words.  History, unfortunately, leads some people oppressed. Some people oppressors.  There are three ways that individuals who are oppressed can deal with our oppression.  One of them is to rise up against our oppressors with physical violence and corroding hatred.  Oh, this isn't the way. For the danger and the weakness of this method,  it is its futility. Violence creates many more social problems than its songs.  That said, in so many instances, that as the Negro, in particular, and colored peoples all over the world,  struggle for freedom is based to come to the temptation of using violence and that struggle.  Unborn generations will be the recipients of a long and desolate night of bitterness,  and our chief legacy to the future will be an endless reign of meaningless chaos.  Violence isn't a way. Another way is to acquiesce and to give in to resign yourself to the oppression.  Some people do that. They discover the difficulties of the wilderness moving into the promised land,  and they would rather put back to the flesh parts of Egypt because it's difficult to get into the promised land,  so they resign themselves to the fate of oppression based somehow acquiesce to this thing.  That too isn't the way because non-cooperation with evil is as much a moral obligation as this cooperation with good.  That is another way. That is to organize mass nonviolent resistance based on the principle of love.  It seems to me that this is the only way the eyes look to the future.  As we look out across the years and across the generations, let us develop and move right here.  We must discover the power of love, the power of the redemptive power of love.  And when we discover that, we will be able to make of this whole world, a new world,  we will be able to make men better. Now is the only way Jesus discovered that.  Not only did Jesus discover it, even great military leaders discovered that.  One day, Napoleon came toward the end of his career,  looked back across the year with the red Napoleon that at a very early age at all was conquered the world.  Not stopped until he became, until he moved out to the Battle of Egypt and then to Waterloo.  That same Napoleon one day stood back and looked across the years and said,  that Alexander sees the Charmin and I have built great empires.  And upon what did they depend? They depended upon force.  And long ago, Jesus started an empire that depended on love and even to this day, millions will die for it.  Yes, I can see Jesus working around the hills in the valley of Palestine.  I can see in him looking out at the Roman Empire with all of her fascinating and intricate military machinery.  In the midst of that I can hear him saying, I will not use this method.  Neither will I hate the Roman Empire.  This recording is briefly interrupted at this point.  I just start marching.  And I'm proud to stand here in touch with this morning and say that that army is still marching.  It grew up from a group of 11 or 12 men to more than 700 million today because of the power and influence of the personality of this Christ.  He was able to split history and aid the embassy because of his power.  He was able to shake the hinges from the gates of the Roman Empire.  And all around the world this morning we can hear the glad echo of heaven and rain.  Jesus shall rain wherever some.  Though his successive journey is run, his kingdom spread from shore to shore, to move shall rain and wax no more.  We can hear another chorus singing all ahead the power of Jesus name.  We can hear another chorus singing hallelujah, hallelujah.  He's king of kings and Lord of law, hallelujah, hallelujah.  We can hear another choir singing in Christ.  There is no Easter West in him, Lord of South.  But one red color ship of love throughout the whole wide world, this is the only way.  Our civilization must discover that and the visuals must discover that as they deal with other individuals.  That is a little tree planted on a little hill and on that tree hangs the most influential character that ever came in this world.  Never feel that that tree is a meaningless drama that took place on the state of the history.  Oh no, it is a telescope through which we look out into the long distance of eternity.  You see the love of God breaking forth into time.  It is an eternal reminder to a power from generation that love is known away.  It is an eternal reminder to a generation depending on nuclear and atomic energy, a generation depending on physical violence  that love is the only creative, redemptive, transforming power in the universe.  So this morning, as I look into your eyes and into the eyes of all of my brothers and all of them in all over the American world,  I say to you, I love you, I would rather die than hate you.  And I am foolish enough to believe that through the power of this love somewhere,  men of the most recalcitrant bent, be transformed.  And then we will be in God's kingdom, we will be able to matriculate into the University of eternal life  because we had the power to love our enemies, to bless those persons, to curse us,  to even decide to be good to those persons who hated us,  and we even praise to those persons who despitefully used us.  Oh God, help us in our lives and in all of our attitudes,  to work out this controlling force to love and this controlling power,  that can solve every problem that we can solve in all areas.  Oh, we talked about politics.  We talked about the problems facing our atomic civilization.  Granted, all men will come together and discover that at the proper price we will solve this problem.  The implemented problems with problems with the public energy, problems with nuclear energy,  we have even the waste problem.  Let us join together in a great fellowship with love and bow down a few of Jesus.  Give us this strong determination and the name and spirit of this Christ we pray.