I want to preach a two-word sermon that I have shared with you four or five years ago.  The first word is great, the next word is but, and that's a comma between the two great comma but I think one of the things that we  have to finally admit about life, whether we are thinking of our individual lives, whether we are thinking of our collective lives,  is that there is a disturbing incompleteness and an agonizing partialness about it.  We can't say about anybody or any two institutions or any man-made structure or thing, the word great and just leave it there.  We can never use the word great in an unqualified sense, following almost every affirmation of greatness.  It is the conjunction but, and so every affirmation of greatness is followed not by a period symbolizing completeness but by a comma,  punctuating its nagging partialness.  Now in the Old Testament we read that passage about a man named Namun.  You've heard of him, if you've read, I should say you should have heard of him. People all read the Bible too much these days so I'm going to preach and talk about the Bible and he's usually telling people something new.  I was asking somebody else a day where the book of Revelation was found and they told me it was an Old Testament and thought the book of Genesis was in the New Testament.  So I have to assume that some of you don't know Namun but that is a passage and the Old Testament which says Namun was a great man but,  and behind that book is something tragic and disturbing it goes on to see but he was a leper.  Namun was a great man but he was a leper.  This is the tragic story of life.  It is a tragic story of so much of man's collective life and as we look back to the long corridors of history over and over again,  we must say about nations and civilizations that this is a great nation but Greece was a great nation.  There's so much to the history of the world.  There's a king and I weigh in Athens.  Greece not long ago and we went up on the Acropolis.  There we stood around that magnificent top and arm which has stood now for so many centuries.  I did not help but carry my mind back across all centuries and think about the fact that some of the greatest minds of history assemble right around that top and arm.  Greece was a great nation.  It gave to the world the poetic insights of Escalus, Soppocles and Euripides.  It gave to mankind the philosophical insights of place to Aristotle and Socrates.  It gave to the world the allotarical power of the monstremes, the game to the world, the historical insights of a decidity.  The whole of mankind is in debt to Greece for its greatness.  In debt to Greece for making all of us as to a legacy of knowledge, Greece was a great nation but behind that but stands the fact that Greece was an aristocracy for some of the people and not a democracy for all of the people.  Behind that but stands the fact that Greece was built by and large the fittestates would build.  On the backs of slaves, Greece was a great nation but she made God's children slave.  We don't have to go back that far.  Western civilization is a great civilization.  Think of what Western civilization has done is given to the world the magnificent insights of the Renaissance.  Think of what Western civilization has given to the world in terms of music.  Given to the world the glad thunder and the gentle signs of a handle, the laudious sweetness of the music of a Beethoven, the charming melodies of Bach, then all of the power of the industrial revolution came right through Western civilization.  Western civilization through Western civilization, man started his truck toward the city of material fulfillment and material prosperity.  Western civilization is a great civilization but I don't want you to forget this morning.  What stands behind that agonizing tragic incompleteness behind that but is the fact that Western civilization has exploded in chapel over millions of God's children through colonialism.  Western civilization is the only religion.  I stood over and over again in West Minnesota in London England.  West Minnesota is a great cathedral standing in all of its overpowering aesthetic beauty and charm.  One of the great cathedrals of the Church of England, whenever I stand there, I have a kind of dual experience on the one hand.  I'm tied away by the enrepturing Gothic architecture, all the beauty of that cathedral.  But on the other hand, I have to stand there and think about the fact that for years, for centuries, the British Empire,  dominated politically, spotted economically, segregated and humiliated millions of God's children over the world and the Church of England never really took a stand against it.  I can stand in West Minnesota and see that all of the kings and queens have been buried there but what was the Church talking about when men were being brutalized through the process of colonialism?  What was the Church doing when men would be trampled over by the hour and feet of oppression?  Western civilization is a great civilization but he has trampled over human personality.  She has allowed the means by which she lives to our distance the hands for which she lives.  She has ended up minimizing the maximum and maximizing the minimum.  She has ended up allowing her civilization to our one her culture.  She has allowed her technology to our distance her theology.  She has allowed her mentality to our one her morality. A Western civilization is a great civilization but behind that but stand something tragic.  Now I want you to know that America is a great nation.  America is a great nation.  We started out here as a nation back in 1776.  The think of the foundation upon which we stood can read about it just beautiful.  The House was followed to structure idealistically we hold these truths to be self-evident and all men are created equal that they are endowed by their creator.  We shouldn't inalienable rights that among these are life liberty and the pursuit of happiness over some red words.  Just the universal aspect of the words should strike.  It didn't say some men is said all men.  It didn't say all height men is said all men which includes black men.  It didn't say all Gentiles are said all men which includes Jews.  It didn't say all Protestants are said all men which includes Catholics.  Then it said something else that's beautiful.  Something that distinguishes this nation from totalitarian forms of government.  It says that every individual has certain basic rights that are neither derived from nor conferred by the state.  In order to discover where they came from it is necessary to move back behind the damn midst of eternity.  They are God-given.  Various elements thereven the history of the world.  As a socio-political document expressed in such profound eloquence and unequivocal language the dignity and the worth of human personality.  America is a great nation.  Then look at what we've done scientifically and technologically.  Yes, we've built machines that think.  Instruments that peered into the unfathomable ranges of interstellar space just look at what we've done.  We've built gargantuan ranges to span the seas and gigantic buildings to kiss the sky.  Just look at what we've done.  There are spaceships.  We've been able to carve highways through the stratosphere.  There's got a mighty you can leave Seattle Tokyo Japan on Sunday morning now.  And arrive in Seattle, Washington on the preceding Saturday night.  And when your friends meet you at the airport and ask you when you left Tokyo you will have to say I left tomorrow.  And that's the kind of world we live in.  Through our airplanes we draw distance and place time and things.  It isn't a usual thing for a preacher to quote Bob Hope.  The Bob Hope has talked about just studies.  There is an age in which you can take a non-stop flight.  From New York City to Los Angeles California distance of about 3,000 miles.  If you don't take an off in New York you develop pickups you will kick in New York and cup in Los Angeles California.  That's moving pretty fast.  America is a great nation.  No, that we are not too long ago.  Diseases were ramparts.  We couldn't do nothing about them.  Men from front of plates.  He died from certain diseases just a few years ago that the wonder drugs came into being to deal with now.  Diseases that took men and women to that grave.  Many years ago many arm can be dealt with in a few hours now.  Because of the skills and the discoveries and the development of medical science.  Look at America and think of what she's done.  America is a great nation but this morning I can't leave you without dealing with what stands behind that tragic thing.  America doesn't deal with that unconvinced that God will bring down the credence on this nation.  The credence of doom.  America is a great nation but for 244 years.  He kept millions of God's black children enslaved.  America is a great nation but for real about the slavery.  He kept millions and this day continues to keep millions of God's children in poverty.  In despair and in hopelessness.  You know there are times that you reap what you sow in history.  America must resolve this race problem but this race problem will doom America.  Know if somebody had better go out.  Tell those white brothers the board who would devour the vision.  Then but one way to deal with it.  That is to make genuine equality a reality for the black men.  So the worst we've got to learn to live together is to simply that.  America is a great nation but man is great.  You can think of sentience and compose it.  Think of a great civilization and go out and create it.  Man is great.  He has a mind, he has a memory.  So he can latch on to the path and he has imagination and he can latch on to the future.  Man is a dreamer.  He can dream dreams.  Dogs live that day.  Lions live that day.  Foxes live that day.  But they all got it by instinct.  They don't have a way to connect with the future.  Therefore you don't see them sitting around working out geometry and algebra.  You've never seen a group of dogs sitting around discussing philosophy because they're the board of speech.  Man has linked with the capacity.  Man is great.  Just look at him because of his mind.  You can't him a man.  You just can't hold him in nowhere.  He can be in one city, physically and in another city at the same time.  You can't hold him in.  You can't him a man.  He has a mind.  He can sit in Atlanta Georgia this morning and be in New York City at the same time.  He has a mind that would break through walls.  You can bring him down in a retro-dolley so that he can hardly walk.  And his vision is going.  But he takes his mind by his breath through time.  And imagine that he hears the brain, don't think it.  And he comes back to his name, if handle.  And scratches across the pages of history.  You can't hold him down.  Man is great.  Look at man and see how great he is.  Man is God's great creation.  Look at what he has done and what it can do.  But the tragedy is that I must come on in now and say, man is great.  But the same men who will use their mind to engage in insight for science.  Will use their mind to make new power and use their hands to burn up little children  with that new power and Vietnam.  They men and the same women that will use the answer, bro.  That geometry to discover new insight.  Will use their plane to rain down bombs on human beings and children.  Man is great.  But we know truth and yet we lie.  We know we ought to be just and yet we are unjust.  We know we ought to know that yet we hate.  We know we ought to follow the road that is high and noble.  And yet we want the low road.  We know we ought to be pure and yet we are impure.  We are faithful to those that we ought to be faithful to.  All we like sheep have gone astray.  Man is great.  But he's a sinner.  That's why I want you to end with me this morning because God didn't call us for this.  But this is where we are.  Man is great, but he's a sinner.  You need a God's divine grace.  And I don't know about you this morning when I delve into the inner chambers among beings.  And I delve into the life of mankind.  I don't end up saying with the Pharisee I thank the Lord that I'm not like other men.  But I end up saying Lord be merciful unto me, a sinner.  No sin that I'm able to escape.  I'm just thankful for when I look at dope addicts.  I just say to myself Lord, I'm thankful this morning, but for the grace of God.  When I see an alcohol, I don't stand up in arrogance.  But I stand up in thankfulness as Lord.  If it weren't for your grace, I'll maybe in the same situation.  And I go through the prisons and move down.  Get through.  I don't fall down there.  But I just say put your law.  God for your grace ought to be on death's roll.  Man is great, but he's a sinner.  Lord this morning, this is why I'm thankful to God.  We must open our lives to him, let him work through Jesus Christ in our being.  And he can remove that but from our lives.  One that means we'll be able to say that this is a good man.  This is a just man.  This is an honest man.  This is a man who is in love in his heart because God has worked in it.  This is why I can sing an amazing praise.  How sweet the sound that pains the rest like me.  I once was lost as I was, but now I'm far from blind from now I see.  You know that's another thing I like about grace.  It causes your heart to feel, but somehow it relieves both of you.  And I want to tell you this once.  I've been through many dangers in my days.  Now many others lie in the head, but it's going to be grace.  Through many dangers, holes and smells.  I have already come.  I'm not worried about the truth because I know about the grace of God.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  Yes.  You have the faith he has the power and it is through this power that we are able to save and live in  the need. Something that makes us truly great children of the Almighty God.